docs/fast_data/glossary.mdx, before:

---
id: glossary
title: Glossary
sidebar_label: Glossary
---

:::caution
Throughout the Fast Data documentation we use MongoDB terminology since we use MongoDB under the hood to store all your data.
If you are not familiar with its terminology check out this [comparison with SQL terms](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/sql-comparison/).
:::

## Fast Data terms

In this page you will find a glossary containing an explanation of the Fast Data terms, together with a link to the page where they are discussed.

export const GlossaryTable = ({entries}) => (
  <table>
    <thead>
      <tr>
        <th>Term</th>
        <th>Explanation</th>
        <th>Alias</th>
        <th>More info</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
  <tbody>
    {entries.map(({name, description, alias, link}) => {
      return (
        <tr>
          <td>{name}</td>
          <td>{description}</td>
          <td><code style={{'white-space': 'nowrap'}}>{alias}</code></td>
          <td>{<a href={link}>link</a>}</td>
        </tr>
      )
    })}
  </tbody>
</table>
)

<GlossaryTable entries={[
  {name: "Projection", description: "A Projection is a standardized representation of the data coming from the System of Records", alias: "pr", link: "./the_basics#projection"},
  {name: "System of Records", description: "A System of Records is the data source providing the raw information to a Fast Data system", alias: "SoR", link: "./the_basics#system-of-records-sor"},
  {name: "Single View", description: "A Single View is a document that aggregates data from many Projections, always available and updated in near real-time", alias: "sv", link: "./the_basics#single-view-sv"},
  {name: "Strategy", description: "Strategies are functions that retrieve the unique identifiers of the Single View that needs to be updated or created as consequence of the changes on the Projections", alias: "-", link: "./the_basics#strategies"},
  {name: "Single View Creator", description: "The service responsible for the creation, update and deletion of Single Views", alias: "SVC", link: "./architecture#single-view-creator-svc"},
  {name: "Real-Time Updater", description: "The service responsible for the creation, update and deletion of the Projections", alias:"RTU", link: "./architecture#real-time-updater-rtu"},
  {name: "Single View Trigger Generator", description: "The service responsible for generating events that trigger the update of Single Views", alias: "SVTG", link: "./architecture#single-view-trigger-generator-svtg"},
  {name: "Projection Update", description: "Kafka event that informs the listener that a Projection has been changed", alias: "pr-update", link: "./inputs_and_outputs#projection-update"},
  {name: "Projection Changes", description: "MongoDB or Kafka event that informs the listener that a Single View needs to be updated", alias: "pc", link: "./inputs_and_outputs#projection-change"},
  {name: "Single View Event", description: "Kafka message that informs the listener that a Single View has been successfully updated", alias: "svc-events", link: "./inputs_and_outputs#single-view-event"},
  {name: "Change Data Capture (CDC)", description: "A system that reacts to change of data at some source (in our case the System of Records) by emitting an event", alias: "CDC", link: "./the_basics#change-data-capture-cdc"},
  {name: "Cast function", description: "A function used to transform the data originally coming from the System of Records before it is saved in the Projection", alias: "-", link: "./the_basics#cast-function"},
  {name: "Kafka adapter", description: "A function that transforms the ingested Kafka messages into a format that can be read by the the Real-Time Updater", alias: "-", link: "./configuration/realtime_updater#message-adapters"},
  {name: "Golden Gate Adapter", description: "A Kafka adapter containing before and after fields", alias: "-", link: "./configuration/realtime_updater#golden-gate"},
  {name: "DB2 Adapter", description: "The default Kafka adapter", alias: "-", link: "./configuration/realtime_updater#ibm-infosphere-data-replication-for-db2"},
  {name: "Initial projection", description: "Is the projection modified by the ingestion message, e.g if we have an ingestion message that updates a \"pr_allergens\" document, then our Initial projection will be \"pr_allergens\"",  alias: "-", link: "./the_basics#projection"},
  {name: "Base projection", description: "Is the projection that correlates 1:1 to your single view, e.g if we have a Single View for your users named \"sv_registry\", the Base projection will most likely be a projection called \"pr_registry\"", alias: "-", link: "./the_basics#projection"}
].sort((a, b) => a.name.localeCompare(b.name))} />

Commit message:

refactor(DC-26): renamed Systems of Record section (#1106)
* refactor: updated all occurrences of Systems of Records and System of Records

* refactor: other updates on SoR

* refactor: updated projections section to SoR section

* refactor: updated screenshots

* refactor: updated tutorial and projections page

* refactor: applied suggestions

---------

Co-authored-by: federico.pini <federico.pini@mia-platform.eu>

docs/fast_data/glossary.mdx, after:

---
id: glossary
title: Glossary
sidebar_label: Glossary
---

:::caution
Throughout the Fast Data documentation we use MongoDB terminology since we use MongoDB under the hood to store all your data.
If you are not familiar with its terminology check out this [comparison with SQL terms](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/sql-comparison/).
:::

## Fast Data terms

In this page you will find a glossary containing an explanation of the Fast Data terms, together with a link to the page where they are discussed.

export const GlossaryTable = ({entries}) => (
  <table>
    <thead>
      <tr>
        <th>Term</th>
        <th>Explanation</th>
        <th>Alias</th>
        <th>More info</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
  <tbody>
    {entries.map(({name, description, alias, link}) => {
      return (
        <tr>
          <td>{name}</td>
          <td>{description}</td>
          <td><code style={{'white-space': 'nowrap'}}>{alias}</code></td>
          <td>{<a href={link}>link</a>}</td>
        </tr>
      )
    })}
  </tbody>
</table>
)

<GlossaryTable entries={[
  {name: "Projection", description: "A Projection is a standardized representation of the data coming from the System of Record", alias: "pr", link: "./the_basics#projection"},
  {name: "System of Record", description: "A System of Record is the data source providing the raw information to a Fast Data system", alias: "SoR", link: "./the_basics#system-of-record-sor"},
  {name: "Single View", description: "A Single View is a document that aggregates data from many Projections, always available and updated in near real-time", alias: "sv", link: "./the_basics#single-view-sv"},
  {name: "Strategy", description: "Strategies are functions that retrieve the unique identifiers of the Single View that needs to be updated or created as consequence of the changes on the Projections", alias: "-", link: "./the_basics#strategies"},
  {name: "Single View Creator", description: "The service responsible for the creation, update and deletion of Single Views", alias: "SVC", link: "./architecture#single-view-creator-svc"},
  {name: "Real-Time Updater", description: "The service responsible for the creation, update and deletion of the Projections", alias:"RTU", link: "./architecture#real-time-updater-rtu"},
  {name: "Single View Trigger Generator", description: "The service responsible for generating events that trigger the update of Single Views", alias: "SVTG", link: "./architecture#single-view-trigger-generator-svtg"},
  {name: "Projection Update", description: "Kafka event that informs the listener that a Projection has been changed", alias: "pr-update", link: "./inputs_and_outputs#projection-update"},
  {name: "Projection Changes", description: "MongoDB or Kafka event that informs the listener that a Single View needs to be updated", alias: "pc", link: "./inputs_and_outputs#projection-change"},
  {name: "Single View Event", description: "Kafka message that informs the listener that a Single View has been successfully updated", alias: "svc-events", link: "./inputs_and_outputs#single-view-event"},
  {name: "Change Data Capture (CDC)", description: "A system that reacts to change of data at some source (in our case the System of Record) by emitting an event", alias: "CDC", link: "./the_basics#change-data-capture-cdc"},
  {name: "Cast function", description: "A function used to transform the data originally coming from the System of Record before it is saved in the Projection", alias: "-", link: "./the_basics#cast-function"},
  {name: "Kafka adapter", description: "A function that transforms the ingested Kafka messages into a format that can be read by the the Real-Time Updater", alias: "-", link: "./configuration/realtime_updater#message-adapters"},
  {name: "Golden Gate Adapter", description: "A Kafka adapter containing before and after fields", alias: "-", link: "./configuration/realtime_updater#golden-gate"},
  {name: "DB2 Adapter", description: "The default Kafka adapter", alias: "-", link: "./configuration/realtime_updater#ibm-infosphere-data-replication-for-db2"},
  {name: "Initial projection", description: "Is the projection modified by the ingestion message, e.g if we have an ingestion message that updates a \"pr_allergens\" document, then our Initial projection will be \"pr_allergens\"",  alias: "-", link: "./the_basics#projection"},
  {name: "Base projection", description: "Is the projection that correlates 1:1 to your single view, e.g if we have a Single View for your users named \"sv_registry\", the Base projection will most likely be a projection called \"pr_registry\"", alias: "-", link: "./the_basics#projection"}
].sort((a, b) => a.name.localeCompare(b.name))} />
