---
id: plugin
title: Plugin
sidebar_label: Plugin
---

import { catalogWellKnownItems } from "@mia-platform/console-types";
import SchemaViewer from "../snippets/schema_viewer.mdx";

Plugins are services that can be instantiated from the [microservices](/products/console/api-console/api-design/services.md) section of the Console Design area.
Practically speaking, plugins are **Docker images** that comes with some predefined configurations to make them work in Console projects (e.g., environment variables, config maps, probes...).

To [create or edit](/products/software-catalog/items-management/overview.md) a plugin, you need to provide a [manifest](/products/software-catalog/items-manifest/overview.md), whose `resources` property should adhere to the following JSON schema.

:::tip
The JSON schemas of the [plugin resources](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mia-platform/console-sdk/refs/tags/%40mia-platform/console-types%400.39.2/packages/console-types/schemas/software-catalog/plugin.resources.schema.json) and of the [full plugin manifest](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mia-platform/console-sdk/refs/tags/%40mia-platform/console-types%400.39.2/packages/console-types/schemas/software-catalog/plugin.manifest.schema.json) are available on GitHub.
:::

<SchemaViewer schema={catalogWellKnownItems['plugin'].resourcesSchema} />

## Values interpolation

The values of the `defaultLabels`, `defaultAnnotations`, and `defaultEnvironmentVariables` fields can contain **placeholders** that will be replaced with the actual values when a Console user creates the service.

Here is an exhaustive list of the placeholders that can be used:

- `%MICROSERVICE_NAME%`: the name of the created microservice.
- `%PROJECT_ID%`: the human-readable ID of the project. It is a dash-separated string generated by the Console when a project is created, based on the project name.
- `%COMPANY_ID%`: the ID of the company that owns the project.
- `%TENANT_ID%`: alias for `%COMPANY_ID%`.

:::info
Any unrecognized placeholder will be left as is in the final value.
:::

As example, consider a plugin with the following `defaultEnvironmentVariables`:

```json
[
  {
    "name": "SOME_ENV_VAR",
    "value": "ms name: %MICROSERVICE_NAME%; project id: %PROJECT_ID%; company id: %COMPANY_ID%"
  }
]
```

Given a Project with the id `my-project`, and a Company with the ID `my-company`, if user creates a microservice named `my-ms` from such plugin, the result will be:

```json
{
   "name": "SOME_ENV_VAR",
   "value": "ms name: my-ms; project id: my-project; company id: my-company"
}
```
