docs/fast_data/faq/fast-data-versioning.md, before:

---
id: fast_data_versioning
title: Fast Data Versioning
sidebar_label: Fast Data Versioning
---

In this page are reported the details regarding the version of each Fast Data Service to provide a reference
on which service is compatible with the others.

## Latest Stable Services Version

| Real-Time-Updater | Single View Trigger Generator | Single View Creator |
|:-----------------:|:-----------------------------:|:-------------------:|
|       7.5.6       |             3.1.2             |        6.2.1        |

## Event Driven Architecture Support

### Minimum Services Version

| Real-Time-Updater | Single View Trigger Generator | Single View Creator |
|:-----------------:|:-----------------------------:|:-------------------:|
|       7.4.0       |             3.0.0             |        5.6.5        |

:::caution
In case it is selected `debezium` as message adapter, the minimum service version for the Real-Time Updater plugin
is `v7.5.4`
:::

### Recommended Services Version

| Real-Time-Updater | Single View Trigger Generator | Single View Creator |
|:-----------------:|:-----------------------------:|:-------------------:|
|       7.5.6       |             3.1.2             |        6.2.1        |

## Projection Storer Support

Projection Storer is a new service that can be employed as a replacement of Real-Time Updater
in the Fast Data _event-driven_ architectures, that is in conjunction with both Single View Trigger Generator
and Single View Creator plugins.

### Minimum Services Version

| Projection Storer | Single View Trigger Generator | Single View Creator |
|:-----------------:|:-----------------------------:|:-------------------:|
|       1.0.0       |             3.1.2             |        6.2.1        |


### Minimum Services Version

| Projection Storer | Single View Trigger Generator | Single View Creator |
|:-----------------:|:-----------------------------:|:-------------------:|
|       1.0.0       |             3.1.2             |        6.2.1        |

## Deprecated Services Versions

Here are listed all the services version that are deprecated because they are affected by a known bug and
do not work as intended.

### Real-Time Updater

### Single View Trigger Generator

- `v3.1.0`: the introduction of message validation on existing messages was too strict causing the discard of all the
`pr-update` events using the `v1` schema. Please upgrade to `v3.1.1`

### Single View Creator

- `v6.2.0`: affected by a bug on the Kafka Consumer. Please upgrade to `v6.2.1`

Commit message:

docs(fast-data): add bucket storage support to versioning faq page

docs/fast_data/faq/fast-data-versioning.md, after:

---
id: fast_data_versioning
title: Fast Data Versioning
sidebar_label: Fast Data Versioning
---

In this page are reported for each Fast Data service its version details. This information should provide a reference
on which service is compatible with the others, which versions should be skipped and which one enables certain features.

## Latest Stable Services Version

| Real-Time-Updater | Single View Trigger Generator | Single View Creator |
|:-----------------:|:-----------------------------:|:-------------------:|
|       7.5.6       |             3.1.2             |        6.2.1        |

## Event Driven Architecture Support

### Minimum Services Version

| Real-Time-Updater | Single View Trigger Generator | Single View Creator |
|:-----------------:|:-----------------------------:|:-------------------:|
|       7.4.0       |             3.0.0             |        5.6.5        |

:::caution
In case it is selected `debezium` as message adapter, the minimum service version for Real-Time Updater plugin
is `v7.5.4`
:::

### Recommended Services Version

| Real-Time-Updater | Single View Trigger Generator | Single View Creator |
|:-----------------:|:-----------------------------:|:-------------------:|
|       7.5.6       |             3.1.2             |        6.2.1        |

## Projection Storer Support

Projection Storer is a new service that can be employed as a replacement of Real-Time Updater
when Fast Data is configured for adopting the _event-driven_ architecture. This service works in conjunction with both
Single View Trigger Generator and Single View Creator plugins to transform change events from the system of record into
the final aggregated Single View.

### Minimum Services Version

| Projection Storer | Single View Trigger Generator | Single View Creator |
|:-----------------:|:-----------------------------:|:-------------------:|
|       1.0.0       |             3.1.2             |        6.2.1        |


### Recommended Services Version

| Projection Storer | Single View Trigger Generator | Single View Creator |
|:-----------------:|:-----------------------------:|:-------------------:|
|       1.0.0       |             3.1.2             |        6.2.1        |

## Bucket Storage Support

### Recommended Services Version

| Ingestion Storer | Ingestion Reloader |
|:----------------:|:------------------:|
|      1.5.1       |       1.4.1        |

## Deprecated Services Versions

Here are listed all the services version that are deprecated because they are affected by a known bug and
do not work as intended.

### Real-Time Updater

### Single View Trigger Generator

- `v3.1.0`: the introduction of message validation on existing messages was too strict causing the discard of all the
`pr-update` events using the `v1` schema. Please upgrade to `v3.1.1` or newer

### Single View Creator

- `v6.2.0`: affected by a bug on the Kafka Consumer. Please upgrade to `v6.2.1` or newer

### Ingestion Storer

- `v1.3.1`: native image failed to build correctly. Please upgrade to `v1.3.2` or newer
