---
id: configuration
title: Swagger Aggregator Configuration
sidebar_label: Configuration
---
This service can be added to your project by visiting Mia-Platform [Marketplace](../../marketplace/overview_marketplace) and creating a new microservice from the **Swagger Aggregator** plugin.

It is also possible to expose your Swagger Aggregator microservice with multiple endpoints, each of them with a specific purpose. For example, you can [create three endpoints](../../development_suite/api-console/api-design/endpoints) with the following paths:

- `/documentations/api-portal/api`: this endpoint is necessary to retrieve the aggregated Open API specification document shown in the [Documentation Portal](../../console/project-configuration/documentation-portal) through the graphical interface generated by the [API Portal](../../runtime_suite/api-portal/overview) plugin.
- `/documentations/swagger`: this endpoint exposes the Swagger UI of your project. For this endpoint you should set its **Rewrite Base Path** to `/swagger`. Remember also to unset the **Support only JSON format on request** and **Support only JSON format on response** flags.
- `/documentations/openapi`: by calling this endpoint you will retrieve the OpenAPI specification document of your project. For this endpoint you should set its **Rewrite Base Path** to `/openapi`.

## Environment variables

- `CONFIG_FILE_PATH` (__required__): defines the path of the configuration file
- `TRUSTED_PROXIES`: defines a list of trusted proxies ips
- `MERGE_STRATEGY`: defines the strategy to merge: `THROWS` or `FIRST` (default: `THROWS`)
- `TIMEOUT_CHECKUP_PROBE_DEPENDENCIES_IN_SECOND`: defines the timeout to check the probe dependencies (default 10s)
- `CONCURRENT_REQUEST_LIMIT`: lets you define the number of allowed concurrent requests that should be done by the service to fetch the documentations
- `PREVENT_REQUEST_BODY_CONFLICTS`: disables the requestBodies aggregation when converting swaggers to openApi V3; the default value is a boolean set to `false`

## Configuration file

:::tip
Configure Swagger Aggregator directly from [Console](../../development_suite/api-console/advanced-section/swagger-aggregator/configuration)
:::

This Microservice is configured via a configuration file similar to this:

```js
/*
 * Copyright © 2018-present Mia-Platform
 * All rights reserved
 */

module.exports = {
  title: "Documentation",
  descriptionMarkdownFilePath: "tests/DESCRIPTION.md",
  version: "1.0.0",
  services: [
    {
      type: "url",
      url: "http://localhost:3000/documentation/json",
      prefix: "/",
      includePaths: [
        {
          path: "/pathToInclude-1",
        },
        {
          path: "/pathToInclude-2",
        },
      ],
      excludePaths: [
        {
          path: "/pathToExclude-1",
        },
      ],
    },
    {
      type: "url",
      url: "http://petstore.swagger.io/v2/swagger.json",
      prefix: "/foo",
    },
    {
      type: "file",
      path: "tests/localSwaggers/localSwagger.yaml",
      prefix: "/v1",
      includePaths: [
        {
          path: "/pathToInclude-1",
        },
      ],
    },
  ],
  baseSwagger: {
    swagger: "2.0",
    consumes: ["application/json"],
    produces: ["application/json"],
    securityDefinitions: {
      APISecretHeader: {
        type: "apiKey",
        in: "header",
        name: "secret",
      },
    },
    security: [
      {
        APISecretHeader: [],
      },
    ],
  },
};
```

First, the swagger-aggregator configuration needs generic information like **title**, **version**, and **description**, that will generically describe the API set provided by all microservices.

:::note
There are two ways to provide a description:

- using the field `description`: requires a simple string;
- using the field `descriptionMarkdownFilePath`: requires the path of a _MarkDown_ file with the description of the swagger (if specified, the content will be shown in the Swagger UI instead of the description).
:::

The `baseSwagger` object contains the first-level configurations of the final merged swagger. Besides all the fields defined by either [OpenApi 2.0](https://swagger.io/specification/v2/) or [OpenApi 3.0](https://swagger.io/specification/) specifications.

A `prefix` property can be specified in the root of the configuration object. Its value will be prepended to the paths of all the routes in the final merged swagger.

The `services` array contains the URLs and files list from which retrieve the swaggers of every microservice; in details, there are two ways to retrieve a microservice swagger:

- **_URL_**: by specifying `url` as `type` property the swagger-aggregator will download the microservice swagger from the provided `url` property. For this service type, the required properties will be `type`, `url`, and `prefix`.
- **_File_**: by specifying `file` as `type` property the swagger-aggregator will take the microservice swagger configurations from the provided `path` property. For this service type, the required properties will be `type`, `path`, and `prefix`. The file must be mounted in the `swagger-aggregator` service using a custom config-map.

In both of them, the user must specify a `prefix` that will be placed before the url or the file path. Any string that begins with `/` is accepted.

:::info
Passing the string `/` as `prefix` means that no prefix will be added to your service URLs or paths.
:::

In both service types, the user can specify `includePaths` and `excludePaths` optional properties to filter the routes to be accessible in the swagger documentation. The filter will include first all the routes according to the objects present in the `includePaths` property, then the result will be filtered by the objects present in the `excludedPaths` property.

Both properties should be an array of objects and each object requires a `path` property.
In each object, it is also possible to define a `verb` property that specifies which verb of that specific path should be included/excluded.

```json
{
  "type": "url",
  "url": "http://petstore.swagger.io/v2/swagger.json",
  "prefix": "/foo",
  "includePaths": [
    {
      "path": "/pathToInclude-1"
    },
    {
      "path": "/pathToInclude-2",
      "verb": "get"
    }
  ],
  "excludePaths": [
    {
      "path": "/pathToInclude-1/pathToExclude-1"
    }
  ]
}
```

Here there is a list of the routes that will or will not be shown in the aggregated swagger documentation based on the example above:

- `/pathToInclude-1/clients` with any route verb: this route will be shown since the first part of the route path is present in the includePaths array.
- `/pathToInclude-3` with any route verb: this route will **not** be shown since the first part of the route path is not present in the includePaths array.
- `/pathToInclude-1/pathToExclude-1/managers` with any route verb: this route will **not** be shown since the first part of the route path is present in the excludePaths array.
- `/pathToInclude-2` with `get` verb: this route will be shown since the route path precisely matches the one present in the includePaths array with the same verb.
- `/pathToInclude-2` with `post` verb: this route will **not** be shown because, even if the route path precisely matches the one present in the includePaths array, the specified verb is different.
- `/pathToInclude-2/customers` with `get` verb: this route will **not** be shown because the route path does not precisely match the one present in the includePaths array, even if the specified verb is the same.

:::caution
It is important to notice that the behavior of these two properties changes depending on the presence of the `verb` property. If `verb` property is not defined all sub-routes that match the `path` property will be included/excluded.

Otherwise, if `verb` property is defined, only the routes that exactly match the `path` and `verb` property will included/excluded.
:::

It is also possible to transform paths and apply custom tags to them with `transformPaths` property.

```json
{
  "type": "url",
  "url": "http://petstore.swagger.io/v2/swagger.json",
  "prefix": "/foo",
  "transformPaths": {
    "/myPath": [
      {
        "path": "/my-path",
        "tags": ["Custom Tag"],
        "verbsToTransform": ["get", "post"]
      },
      {
        "path": "/my-path2",
        "tags": ["Some other custom tag"]
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

Here is a list of the routes that will or will not be transformed in the aggregated swagger documentation based on the example above:

- `/myPath` with `get` verb: this route will be transformed into two different routes `/my-path` and `/my-path2` with the specified tags and `get` verb.
- `/myPath` with `delete` verb: this route will be transformed into another route `/my-path2` with `Some other custom tag` as tag and `delete` verb.
- `/yourPath` with any verb: this route will not be transformed since it does not match any transformPath.
- `/myPath/customers` with `get` verb: this route will be transformed into another route `/my-path2/customers` with `Some other custom tag` as tag and `get` verb. It will not be transformed into `/my-path/customers` because it does not exactly match `path` property.

:::caution
It is important to notice that the behavior of `transformPaths` property changes depending on the presence of `verbsToTransform` property. If `verbsToTransform` property is not defined all sub-routes that match the `path` property will be transformed.

Otherwise, if `verbsToTransform` property is defined, only the routes that exactly match the `path` and `verb` properties will be transformed.
:::

:::caution
Please be sure to validate the configuration with the following <a download target="_blank" href="/docs_files_to_download/swagger-aggregator/swagger-aggregator-config.jsonschema.js"> JSON schema</a> before running the service, otherwise the microservice will not correctly start.
:::

:::info
For additional information about more advanced properties that can be defined in the swagger-aggregator configuration (e.g., `subSwaggers` property) visit [this page](../../development_suite/api-console/advanced-section/swagger-aggregator/configuration).
:::
