---
id: configuration
title: Swagger Aggregator Advanced Configuration
sidebar_label: Swagger Aggregator
---

In the Advanced section of the Design Area you can configure the [Swagger Aggregator](/runtime_suite/swagger-aggregator/10_overview.md).

The advanced configuration allows managing how the swagger APIs are exposed. Examples of possible configurations are:

- Create further custom routes

- Rewrite swagger routes to match different specifications depending on the context

- Define sub-swaggers to expose only a subset of the whole API

- Collect and combine swaggers from other services to expose them in a single interface as a whole.

:::note
This configuration affects the API documentation available in the [Documentation Portal](/console/project-configuration/documentation-portal.md).
:::

:::caution
The custom configuration can conflict with [endpoints visibility](/development_suite/api-console/api-design/endpoints.md#manage-the-visibility-of-your-endpoints) and [API documentation path](/development_suite/api-console/api-design/services.md#microservice) set from the Console.
:::

You can configure files directly from the Console: go to the Design area and click on the `Advanced` tab, from the list expand `swagger-aggregator` item. You have to edit the `swagger-aggregator.json` file **only**.

:::caution
In the `swagger-aggregator` list item is possible that you will find some `.conf` files. These files are now deprecated and should not be used anymore since `swagger-aggregator.json` file completely replaced them.

Here is the list of the deprecated `.conf` files:

- urls.before.conf
- urls.after.conf
- description.conf
- baseSwagger.conf
- subswaggers.conf
:::

Below are reported the more advanced properties that can be configured at the first level of `swagger-aggregator.json` file and how they can be employed to customize the Swagger Aggregator functionalities.

:::info
Remember that all the following properties (with the exceptions of `servicesUrlsBefore` and `servicesUrlsAfter`) can also be set through the configuration file, as described [here](/runtime_suite/swagger-aggregator/10_overview.md).
:::

## servicesUrlsBefore and servicesUrlsAfter

Use `servicesUrlsBefore` to add custom services from which retrieve the swaggers before the ones generated by the console. Use `servicesUrlsAfter` to add services after the others.

:::caution
These two properties do not belong to the json schema of the swagger aggregator configuration and, therefore, can **not** be defined in its configuration file. The only way to use `servicesUrlsBefore` and `servicesUrlsAfter` properties is through the advanced section of the Console, by adding them to the `swagger-aggregator.json` file.
:::

:::caution
Do **not** edit `urls.before.conf` and `urls.after.conf` files, they are now deprecated and should not be used anymore. Add these two properties in the `swagger-aggregator.json` file instead.
:::

Both properties are **array** where each object can have the following properties:

- `type`
  - `url`: by specifying Url as type the swagger-aggregator will download the microservice swagger by the provided `url` field
  - `file`: by specifying file as type the swagger-aggregator will take the microservice swagger configurations by the provided `path` field.
- `url`/`path`: microservice swagger url/file path
- `prefix` (_optional_): the prefix

In both of them, the user can specify an `includePaths` and an `excludePaths` array, useful to filter the paths that are accessible from outside. The filter will include first all the paths according to the object passed by `includePaths` then the result will be filtered by the `excludedPaths`.

### servicesUrlsBefore Example

```json
"servicesUrlsBefore":[
  {
    "type": "url",
    "url": "http://your-microservice/documentation/json",
    "prefix": "/"
  },
  {
    "type": "url",
    "url": "http://<your-microservice>/<custom-docs-path>",
    "prefix": "/one/ring/to/route/them/all"
  }
]
```

By adding the above `servicesUrlsBefore` property to the `swagger-aggregator.json` file you will add two services at the beginning of the `services` array property of the swagger configuration file. Swagger aggregator will request the swagger documentation of these two services (starting from `your-microservice/documentation/json`) before all other services that may be present.

## subswaggers

Use `subswaggers` property to define, as described briefly above, a set of sub-swaggers that represents a limited view on all the APIs that services expose within a project.

:::caution
Do **not** edit `subswaggers.conf` file, it is now deprecated and should not be used anymore. Add this property in the `swagger-aggregator.json` file instead.
:::

There are many reasons to enable this feature, one of them could be to use them to cluster different endpoints under specific tags or to group routes so that they can be encapsulated into other projects.

### subswagger Example

```json
{
  "/<reference-name>.json": {
    "name": "<subswagger-name>",
    "tagName": "<routes-group-name>",
    "expression": "<simple-js-filtering-expression>"
  }
}
```

Each element must be defined by `<reference-name>.json` key, which can be used as a handle in the [servicesUrlsBefore](#servicesurlsbefore-and-servicesurlsafter) to select which group should be exposed in other projects swaggers. It can include the following properties:

- `name`: represents the name associated with the group in the swagger interface.
- `tagName`: represents the name under which all the routes that match the expression are grouped.
- `expression`: is evaluated as a simple JavaScript code that filters out from the sub-swagger group all the routes whose expression returns false.

To exploit the expression function depending on different contexts, three JS variables are provided to support the filtering process:

- `method`: it represents which HTTP method can be used to call a specific route

- `path`: it represents the path called for a specific route

- `tags`: it is the list of tags that decorates a specific route

Here is provided an example of what a sub-swagger.conf configuration file might look likes:

### subswaggers full-example

```json
"subswaggers": {
  "/project-name-cool-tag.json": {
    "name": "My Cool Project - Tags filter",
    "tagName": "My Cool Project 1",
    "expression": "'cool-project' in tags"
  },
  "/project-name-welcome-route.json": {
    "name": "My Cool Project - Path filter",
    "tagName": "My Cool Project 2",
    "expression": "'/cool/project/answers/welcome' === path"
  },
  "/project-name-no-get-routes.json": {
    "name": "My Cool Project 3 - Method filter",
    "tagName": "My Cool Project 3",
    "expression": "'GET' !== method"
  }
}
```

## baseSwagger

Use `baseSwagger` object to define custom paths following [OpenAPI specification](https://swagger.io/docs/specification/2-0/basic-structure/).

:::caution
Do **not** edit `baseSwagger.conf` file, it is now deprecated and should not be used anymore. Add this property in the `swagger-aggregator.json` file instead.
:::

### baseSwagger Example

```json
"baseSwagger": {
  "swagger": "2.0",
    "consumes": [
      "application/json",
    ],
    "produces": [
      "application/json",
    ],
    "securityDefinitions": {
      "APISecretHeader": {
        "type": "apiKey",
        "in": "header",
        "name": "secret",
      },
    },
    "security": [
      {
        "APISecretHeader": [],
      },
    ],
}
```

## prefix

Use first level `prefix` property to add to all routes a prefix. This feature may be useful when using multiple [API Gateways](/runtime_suite/api-gateway/10_overview.md) or when having a custom reverse proxy before your project.

### prefix Example

```json
{
  "title": "Documentation",
  "descriptionMarkdownFilePath": "tests/DESCRIPTION.md",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "prefix": "/your-prefix",
  "services": [
    {
      "type": "url",
      "url": "http://your-microservice/documentation/json",
      "prefix": "/"
    },
    {
      "type": "url",
      "url": "http://your-second-microservice/documentation/json",
      "prefix": "/second-prefix"
    }
  ],
  "baseSwagger": {
    "swagger": "2.0"
  }
}
```

In this example, all the routes documented by `your-microservice` swagger will receive `/your-prefix` as prefix, while all the other routes documented by `your-second-microservice` swagger will receive `/your-prefix/second-prefix` as prefix.
