---
id: development-affordance
title: Development Affordance
sidebar_label: Development-affordance
---

<!--
WARNING: this file was automatically generated by Mia-Platform Doc Aggregator.
DO NOT MODIFY IT BY HAND.
Instead, modify the source file and run the aggregator to regenerate this file.
-->

To aid you in the development and testing of your service locally on your machine we provide
some affordances that you can use.

## `ENV` Variables for Local Runs

If you need to use some `ENV` variables inside your service to customize its behavior you can use the `--env`
flag and pass a [`.env` file path][dotenv-file-syntax] to it.  
For example you can add this script to your `package.json`:

```json
"scripts": {
  "start": "lc39 index.js",
  "start:local": "npm start -- --env-path ./local.env",
},
```

And then you will run the following command for starting the server locally:

```sh
npm run start:local
```

## `ENV` Variables for Testing

In a similar way, if your service needs to work with `ENV` variable we have some tips that will set you up
for using them in a safe way both in runtime and during unit testing your web service.

### Safe Use of `ENV` Variables During Runtime

We will reccommend to use the [`fastify-env`][fastify-env] package for validating them against a JSON schema
that you control.  
Inside your main entry point for the service you then can do somenthing like that:

```javascript
const fastifyEnv = require('fastify-env')

const envSchema = { ... }

module.exports = async function service(fastify) {
  fastify.register(fastifyEnv, { schema: envSchema })
}
```

In this way you can access all your `ENV` variables with `fastify.config`, and if one of them do not conform
to your schema the service will crash.

### Safe Use of `ENV` Variables During Runtime
For your tests if you have followed the previous advice you can add i tiny bit to it for a very big gain:

```javascript
const fastifyEnv = require('fastify-env')

const envSchema = { ... }

module.exports = async function service(fastify, options) {
  fastify.register(fastifyEnv, { schema: envSchema, data: options })
  fastify.register(fastifyEnv)
}
```

As you can see, the only difference is that we pass the `options` object as the base data for `fastify-env`.
In doing so, we will merge it with the `ENV` variables loaded in runtime giving the former precedence over
the latter.  
Running the service normally will not change anything, because the options object will not be populated, but
you can use it during your tests for changing them very easily:

```javascript
const lc39 = require('@mia-platform/lc39')
const test = require('tap').test

test('A simple test', async assert => {
  const options {
    envVariables: {
      ENV_VARIABLE: 'value',
    }
  }
  const fastify = await lc39('./path/to/entrypoint/from/root', options)
  ...
})
```

From the `fastify` variable returned you can then customized it for your tests and injecting the calls you need to tests.  
By default the started instance is not listening on any port and will start the logger at the `silent` level.  
If you need to see the log you can set the `logLevel` key inside the `options` object and you are free to bind the
fastify instance on any address and port using its available methods.

[dotenv-file-syntax]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv#rules
[fastify-env]: https://github.com/fastify/fastify-env

## Capture the Log Stream

In some cases during the tests you want to capture the logs emitted from the logger and do assertions on them. For this
cases you can set the `stream` key that accept a writable stream. Once written the data is at your disposal, the simplest
stream you can use is the `PassThrough` stream of node:

```javascript
const { PassThrough } = require('stream')
const lc39 = require('@mia-platform/lc39')
const test = require('tap').test
test('A simple test', async assert => {
  const stream = new PassThrough()
  const options {
    logLevel: 'info',
    stream,
  }
  
  const fastify = await lc39('./path/to/entrypoint/from/root', options)
  const log = stream.read().toString()
  ...
})
```
