---
id: main-entrypoint
title: Main Entrypoint
sidebar_label: Main-entrypoint
---

<!--
WARNING: this file was automatically generated by Mia-Platform Doc Aggregator.
DO NOT MODIFY IT BY HAND.
Instead, modify the source file and run the aggregator to regenerate this file.
-->

**lc39** does some assumption on how the main entrypoint of your service can be layed out.  
This is in order to correctly import and validate the functions and data passed to it and for correctly create
and launch the Fastify instance.

The best way to use **lc39** is using it by CLI, running it with a command like:

```sh
lc39 ./index.js --env-path .env
```

with configured options written [here](./cli-flags.md).

It's also possible to use `lc39` as a function:

```js
const lc39 = require('@mia-platform/lc39')

async function service(fastify) {
  fastify.get('/', async (req, reply) => {
    return { hello: 'world' }
  })
}

lc39(service, {
  logLevel: 'silent',
  envVariables: {
    ENV_KEY: 'ENV_VALUE',
  },
  swaggerDefinition: {
    info: swaggerInfo,
  },
})
```

## Main Exported Function

Your service must export a function for its module. The function can have a single parameter or two:

- fastify: the instance of the fastify server created by **lc39**
- options: the optional parameter, this will contain the object passed to fastify for setting up your module

```javascript
module.exports = async function service(fastify) {
  fastify.get('/', async (req, reply) => {
    return { hello: 'world' }
  })
}
```

As you can see the function must be declared `async` and must be exported as the root of the module.

## Fastify Sensible

The `lc39` will add the [`fastify-sensible`][fastify-sensible] plugin so you will be able to use all its
affordance in your module implementation, so httpErrors and asserts are only one call away.

## Custom Status Routes

With `lc39` your service will automatically inherit **three** fixed routes for getting infomation on the
service:

- `GET /-/healthz`
- `GET /-/ready`
- `GET /-/check-up`

The first route can be used as a probe for load balancers, status dashboards
and as a [`helthinessProbe`][k8s-deployment-probes] for [Kubernetes][k8s].  
By default, the route will always response with an `OK` status and the `200` `HTTP` code as soon as the service is up.

The second route can be used as a [`readinessProbe`][k8s-deployment-probes] for Kubernetes.  
As the first route, the default implementation of this endpoint will always respond
`OK` status and the `200` `HTTP` code as soon as the service is up.

The third route can be used as _check-up_ route, to verify if all the functionalities of the service are available or not. The purpose of this route should be to check the availability of all the dependencies of the service and reply with a _check-up_ of the service.<br />As the others, the default implementation of this endpoint will always respond
`OK` status and the `200` `HTTP` code as soon as the service is up.

The default implementations are a nice placeholder until you can add some logic tied to your service.  
For doing so you can add two new `module.exports` to your main entrypoint that will be used to customize
the behavior.

```javascript
module.exports.readinessHandler = async function readinessHandler(fastify) {
  // Add your custom logic for /-/ready here
  return { statusOK: true }
}
module.exports.healthinessHandler = async function healthinessHandler(fastify) {
  // Add your custom logic for /-/healthz here
  return { statusOK: true }
}
module.exports.checkUpHandler = async function checkUpHandler(fastify) {
  // Add your custom logic for /-/check-up here
  return { statusOK: true }
}
```

These functions must return an object that will customize the response of the server. The only property needed
is `statusOK` that contains a boolean; `true` for returning a `200` response and `false` for returning `503`.  
Additionally you can add any property you want and it will be appended to the response. If you add the `name`
and/or `version` key your value will override the default ones that will be parsed from `package.json`.  
Both of these endpoints conform to the JSON schema that you can find [here][status-routes-schema].

**BE AWARE**  
Both of this endpoints are set to permanently run on log level `silent` for decreasing the amount of noise in the
logs during the deployment.

## Prometheus Metrics

By default `lc39` exposes `/-/metrics` endpoint for [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/). The response body contains process, garbage collection and http information

Anyway you can define your custom metrics in the following way:

```js
module.exports = async function plugin(fastify) {
  fastify.get('/', function (request, reply) {
    this.customMetrics.myCounter.inc()
    // ...
  })
}

module.exports.getMetrics = function getMetrics(prometheusClient) {
  const myCounter = new prometheusClient.Counter({
    name: 'custom_metric',
    help: 'Custom metric',
  })
  return {
    myCounter,
  }
}
```

It is possible to add options to the metrics plugin to change the default behavior. lc39 uses [fastify-metrics](https://github.com/SkeLLLa/fastify-metrics) under the hood, so it is possible to configure all the properties except the exposed endpoint.

```js
module.exports.options = {
  metrics: {
    enableRouteMetrics: false
  }
}
```

## Exposed Swagger Documentation

By default lc39 will import the [`fastify-swagger`][fastify-swagger] module for exposing the service documentation following the OpenAPI 3 specification. In order to expose API documentation following the Swagger 2.0 specification the service should export `swaggerDefinition` with `openApiSpecification` valued as `'swagger'`.

```javascript
module.exports.swaggerDefinition = {
  openApiSpecification: 'swagger',
}
```

If you want to customize more the generated [OpenAPI][openapi] file, you can add the following object export
that can be accepted for the dynamic implementation of `fastify-swagger`.

```javascript
module.exports.swaggerDefinition = {
  info: {
    title: 'Service title',
    description: 'This description of the service functionality',
    version: 'v1.0.0',
  },
  consumes: ['application/json'],
  produces: ['application/json'],
}
```

If you don’t export this object `lc39` will automatically create this for you using the data
found in the `package.json` of your project.

If you need to edit the schema used to generate the swagger, you can use `transformSchemaForSwagger` to do it.

```javascript
module.exports = async function plugin(fastify) {
  fastify.get('/', {
    schema: {
      querystring: {
        label: { type: 'string' },
      },
    },
  }, function returnConfig(request, reply) {
    reply.send({ })
  })
}

module.exports.transformSchemaForSwagger = ({schema, url}) => {
  const {
    querystring,
    ...rest
  }
  const converted = {...rest}
  if (querystring) {
    converted.querystring = convertQuerystringSchema(querystring)
  }
  return {
    schema: converted,
    url
  }
}
```

This method is called for each route.
The `schema` parameter is the schema object set to the route.
`transformSchemaForSwagger` is only called on the first time that `/documentation/json` it's visited.

## OpenTelemetry tracing [experimental]

_The tracing is experimental and could change in a breaking also with minor changes_

`lc39` allow to enable the tracing of the application using the OpenTelemetry SDK. To enable it, use the `--enable-tracing` option of the CLI.
It is  possible to change the configuration of the SDK using environment variables ([here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js/tree/main/experimental/packages/opentelemetry-sdk-node) the docs of the node sdk).

Some of the env variables useful to configure the service. A full list is available [here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/configuration/sdk-environment-variables.md) (check if the SDK supports them):

* `OTEL_TRACES_EXPORTER` (default is _otlp_): List of exporters to be used for tracing, separated by commas. Options include `otlp`, `jaeger`, `zipkin`, and `none`.
* `OTEL_PROPAGATORS`: Propagators to be used as a comma-separated list. e.g. `b3`
* `OTEL_SERVICE_NAME` (_required_): the service name. If not set, the service is set as unknown in trace.

[fastify-sensible]: https://github.com/fastify/fastify-sensible
[k8s]: https://kubernetes.io/
[k8s-deployment-probes]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-liveness-readiness-probes/
[status-routes-schema]: https://github.com/mia-platform/lc39/blob/master/lib/status-routes.schema.json
[fastify-swagger]: https://github.com/fastify/fastify-swagger
[openapi]: https://swagger.io/specification/
