---
id: secrets_resolution
title: Secrets Resolution in Config Maps
sidebar_label: Secrets Resolution
---

In general, services may have secrets or sensitive data inside their configuration
files ([Config Maps](/products/console/api-console/api-design/services.md#configmaps)),
such as connection strings or credentials. This usually performed for grouping a
set of configuration properties together
and reduce the clutter generated by a large number of environment variables.  
Since these configuration are stored in plain text (differently from [Secrets](/products/console/api-console/api-design/services.md#secrets)),
anybody with the access to them can read their content.  

Therefore, to prevent unauthorized access to those details, the initial approach
for solving this issue was to [interpolate variables](/runtime-components/tools/mlp/50_interpolate.md)
within config maps, using the `{{<env_var_name>}}` syntax.
For example, assuming the client identifier for our application is stored within
the environment variable `APP_CLIENT_ID` and we wanted to add such value
to a config map using the interpolation feature of [`mlp`](/runtime-components/tools/mlp/10_overview.md),
we would write a config map as follows:

```json
{
  "cool-config": {
    "app": {
      "client-id": "{{APP_CLIENT_ID}}"
    }
  }
}
```

Although this solution avoids writing secrets in plain text while config maps
are stored in a repository (for versioning them), it does not prevent users
with access to K8s config maps to read those secrets once configurations are deployed.

To address this pitfall and provide an agnostic solution that works with any
deploy tool, we introduced within our service a logic of secrets resolution,
which allows injecting secrets within configuration files only within the
service at runtime (after a config maps is mounted and read by the service).

Secrets can be injected via **secret resolution** within a config map as:

- [plain text](#plain-text), that is providing the real or interpolated value
- reference to an [environment variable](#environment-variable)
- reference to a [file](#file-reference), either its full content or the internal key of a `.ini` file

These are the Fast Data services that support this feature in their config maps:

| Service                                                                                           | Version |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:-------:|
| [Mongezium](/products/fast_data/fast_data_engine_v2/mongezium_cdc/20_Configuration.mdx)           | >=0.4.2 |
| [Stream Processor](/products/fast_data/fast_data_engine_v2/stream_processor/20_Configuration.mdx) | >=0.5.2 |
| [Farm Data](/products/fast_data/fast_data_engine_v2/farm_data/20_Configuration.mdx)               | >=0.5.3 |
| [Kango](/products/fast_data/fast_data_engine_v2/kango/20_Configuration.mdx)                       | >=0.5.1 |

:::tip
Please, verify in the documentation and in the service configuration schema which
config properties support **secret resolution** mechanism.
In general, persistence and stream (consumer and producer) configuration
support **secret resolution** mechanism.
:::

## Plain Text

The field is set to be a string and it is loaded directly from the Config Map itself.

```json
{
  "some-entry": {
    // ...,
    "some-secret-field": {
      "url": "{{CONNECTION_STRING}}"
    }
  }
}
```

:::danger
Remember to use [external environment variables](/products/console/project-configuration/manage-environment-variables/index.md),
to avoid store them in plain in your Console configuration!
:::

:::info
This mode provides backward compatibility with any of your existing configuration, so that
- you may upgrade your services with confidence without the need to change your config maps
- you may try out the secret resolution method and potentially revert your changes without
  breaking your services
:::

## Environment Variable

The field is populated [by a microservice environment variable](/products/console/api-console/api-design/services.md#environment-variables-configuration).

```json
{
  "some-entry": {
    // ...,
    "some-secret-field": {
      "url": {
        "type": "env",
        "key": "<ENVIRONMENT VARIABLE NAME>"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

:::tip
By default the value contained in the environment variable that is referenced
within the secret is expected to be a plain text. However, the secret definition
allows to define the `encoding` property to `base64`, so that the value contained
in the environment variable can be written in `base64` format.

```json
{
  "some-entry": {
    // ...,
    "some-secret-field": {
      "url": {
        "type": "env",
        "key": "<ENVIRONMENT VARIABLE NAME>",
        "encoding": "base64"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

:::

## File Reference

The field is populated by the content of [a file mounted inside the microservice](/products/console/api-console/api-design/services.md#secrets),
such as file a K8s secret.

To help in creating K8s secrets it is available [`mpl`](/runtime-components/tools/mlp/30_generate.md)
tool which automate secrets creation of the ones configured in the `mlp.yaml`
file that can be found within your Console Project repository.

### Full Content

```json
{
  "some-entry": {
    // ...
    "some-secret-field": {
      "url": {
        "type": "file",
        "path": "/path/to/file"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Using the above configuration the service will load the whole file content
within the configuration property (in this case `some-secret-field`).

### Single key from .ini file

Secret resolution of files supports the `.ini` format, that is a file with
key-value pair values. Consequently, it is possible to specify which key within
the selected file should be loaded in the microservice configmap's property.

```json
{
  "some-entry": {
    // ...
    "some-secret-field": {
      "url": {
        "type": "file",
        "path": "/path/to/file.ini",
        "key": "KEY_NAME"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

For example, let's consider the above configuration and the following `.ini` file:

```ini
KEY_NAME=cool-secret
OTHER_KEY=uninteresting-secret
```

which is mounted as secret in the microservice at the path `/path/to/file.ini`.
As a result, the value that the microservice will read when accessing the config
property `some-secret-field` is `cool-secret` associated to `KEY_NAME` key.

### Single key from .json file

Secret resolution of files supports the `.json` format, that is a file with
key-value pair values. Consequently, it is possible to specify which key within
the selected file should be loaded in the microservice configmap's property.

```json
{
  "some-entry": {
    // ...
    "some-secret-field": {
      "url": {
        "type": "file",
        "path": "/path/to/file.ini",
        "key": "keyName"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

For example, let's consider the above configuration and the following `.json` file:

```json
{
  "keyName": "cool-secret",
  "otherKey": "uninteresting-secret"
}
```

which is mounted as secret in the microservice at the path `/path/to/file.json`.
As a result, the value that the microservice will read when accessing the config
property `some-secret-field` is `cool-secret` associated to `keyName` key.

---

For more details regarding the secret resolution syntax, please refer to
[`secret_rs`](https://docs.rs/secret_rs/latest/secret_rs/index.html) library.
