---
id: changelog
title: CHANGELOG
sidebar_label: CHANGELOG
---

<!--
WARNING: this file was automatically generated by Mia-Platform Doc Aggregator.
DO NOT MODIFY IT BY HAND.
Instead, modify the source file and run the aggregator to regenerate this file.
-->

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/),
and this project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

## [1.6.0] 2023-11-22

### Changed

- The POST /send endpoint now supports the new field **emailSender** to overwrite the sender set in the service config.

## [1.5.0] 2023-09-25

### Added
- Added the API POST /saga/send that accepts a [Flow Manager](../docs/runtime_suite/flow-manager-service/overview) command as input body.
- Add support for custom metadata to push notifications using pushData template field

## [1.4.0] 2023-08-31

### Added

- The API POST /send now accepts the new field **emailCarbonCopies** for adding email addresses as carbon copies (CC). 
- The API POST /send now accepts the new field **emailBlindCarbonCopies** for adding email addresses as blind carbon copies (BCC). 

## [1.3.0] 2023-06-26

- Upgrade to Node.js v18

### Added

- Added [handlebars-helpers](https://github.com/helpers/handlebars-helpers) library for advanced message interpolation.

### Fixed

- Fixed documentation links

## [1.2.1] 2023-03-07

### Changed

- Configurable android action added via `androidIntentAction`.

## [1.2.0] 2023-01-18

### BREAKING CHANGES

#### CRUD collections

The `message_templates` CRUD collection schema has changed as follows:
- `emailAttachments` (**changed**): update type from `array of string` to `array of object`

### Changed

- Support template attachments: now con be sent a communication with both a message and template attachments.

## [1.1.0] 2022-11-25

### Added

- Logs added to channels and crud.
- Added voice channel to messaging service, exploiting Kaleyra outbound calls service.

## [1.0.3] 2022-06-20

### Fixed

- Fixed the POST /send response that contained `failures` array elements even if emails were delivered correctly to end users.

## [1.0.2] 2022-05-26

### Fixed

- Fixed a bug as described in [#4](https://git.tools.mia-platform.eu/platform/plugins/messaging-service/-/issues/4) to allow Kafka messages to be sent correctly.
- Fixed an issue occurring when omitting the environment variables `KAFKA_CONNECTION_TIMEOUT` and `KAFKA_AUTHENTICATION_TIMEOUT` as described in [#3](https://git.tools.mia-platform.eu/platform/plugins/messaging-service/-/issues/3).

## [1.0.1] 2022-03-29

- Fix to POST /send for emails with attachments.

## [1.0.0] 2021-10-08

- First release
