---
id: usage
title: Usage
sidebar_label: Usage
---

<!--
WARNING: this file was automatically generated by Mia-Platform Doc Aggregator.
DO NOT MODIFY IT BY HAND.
Instead, modify the source file and run the aggregator to regenerate this file.
-->

In this section, we show you how to use the `authentication-service`.

## Login Flows

The service handles the `authorization_code` and the legacy `password` OAuth2 grant types.


### Authorize

API Signature: `GET /authorize`

The `/authorize` endpoint is useful for the login flow with grant type `authorization_code`.

The authorization endpoint accepts the following **query parameters**:

- **appId**: the `APP_ID` key from the [configurations file](./20_configuration.mdx#configurations-file)
- **providerId**: the `PROVIDER_ID` key from the configuration file, under the corresponding `APP_ID`

An example curl:

```sh
curl --request GET 'https://app.example.com/authorize?appId={{APP_ID}}&providerId={{PROVIDER_ID}}'
```

When called, the authentication service redirects to the IdP's *authUrl* endpoint, which in turn is expected to redirect to the *redirectUrl* specified in the configurations file with the query string parameters *code* and *state*.

Example of redirect URL:

```text
https://app.example.com/callback?code={{CODE}}&state={{STATE}}
```

Your application should then implement the logic to call the [POST /oauth/token with authorization_code grant type](#authorization-code-grant-type) with the information passed in the above query string, as per the [Authorization Code Grant OAuth2 flow](https://oauth.net/2/grant-types/authorization-code/).

:::tip

In case you are using a web app this request can be urlmade directly from the browser; in this case the user will be redirected to an external login page, and then, back to the custom callback URI when the login succeeds.

:::

#### Redirect url parameter

You can pass a redirect url to the request, by means of the `redirect` query string parameter. After a successful login, the `/oauth/token` endpoint will set the `Location` header to the specified url.

If a request comes with no `redirect` query parameter, the `Location` header will be set to the `defaultRedirectUrlOnSuccessfulLogin` app setting parameter, if specified.

In all other cases the `Location` header will not be set.

:::info

The response status code of a successful request is always `200 OK`, which means that browsers will ignore by default the `Location` header. It is responsibility of the client implementation to use the redirect url when needed.

:::

:::warning

It is strongly recommended to set the `allowedRedirectUrlsOnSuccessfulLogin` parameter (available from v2.8.0) on the app configuration, in order to avoid the [Open Redirector vulnerability](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6749#section-10.15).

If you set this parameter, the service will refuse to accept any redirect url not present in the set. This prevents an attacker client to set malicious redirect URLs. Any request providing a redirect URL not included in the set will result in a `400 Bad Request`, and the token will not be issued.

This parameter may become required in the next releases of the service.

:::

#### Client generated state

:::info

This feature is turned off by default for retrocompatibility reasons, but its usage is strongly encouraged.

To enable this feature, you need to set the config parameter variable `authorizeStateRequired` to `true`, in each app where you need it.

:::

To achieve a better level of security, the client should take charge of the process of the state generation.
This enables protection against CSRF attacks, as documented [here](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6749#section-10.12).

The client must follow these steps:

- Generate a random state string. The randomly generated string should be sufficiently hard to guess, as described [here](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc6749#section-10.10). For instance, an [UUID v4](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier) is compliant with this specification.

- Save the state on the client application side (for example in local storage), making sure the location where it is saved it is only accessible by the client.

- Call the `/authorize` endpoint, passing the state in the query string, like in the following example:

    ```sh
    curl --request GET 'https://app.example.com/authorize?appId={{APP_ID}}&providerId={{PROVIDER_ID}}&state=<some-hard-to-guess-string>'
    ```

- Once the redirect URL is called, the client must check that the state in the redirect URL querystring matches the one it generated at the first step. If it doesn't, the client must refuse to proceed in the token request.

- If the state validation check succeeds, the client can now obtain a token by calling the `/oauth/token` endpoint, as described in the [related section](#get-jwt-token).

### Get JWT Token

API Signature: `POST /oauth/token`

This endpoint is used to obtain the token, that the user will then use to authenticate to the endpoints.

#### Authorization code grant type

The body of the request, in JSON format, is composed of the following fields:

```json
{
    "code": "{{CODE}}",
    "state": "{{STATE}}"
}
```

These fields are usually retrieved from the redirect url query string.

#### Password grant type (DEPRECATED)

:::warning

The `password` grant type usage is discouraged and with limited support by providers.

Please only use this only if `authorization_code` grant type is not applicable for your use case.

Check your provider documentation to make sure it is supported.

:::

The body of the request, in JSON format, is composed of the following fields:

```json
{
    "grant_type": "password",
    "username": "{{USERNAME}}",
    "password": "{{PASSWORD}}",
    "appId": "{{APP_ID}}",
    "providerId": "{{PROVIDER_ID}}"
}
```

Regardless of the used `grant_type`, the endpoint will return a JSON object with *accessToken*, *refreshToken* and *expiresAt*.

```json
{
    "accessToken": "my-access-token",
    "refreshToken": "my-refresh-token",
    "expireAt": 1234567890
}
```

#### Web site cookie configuration

If you are using a website client, you can set the `isWebsiteApp` field to `true` in the service configuration; this way, the token API will return two session cookies:

- a cookie named *sid*, that contains the access token as value
- a cookie named *refresh_token*, that contains the refresh token as value

The cookies have the following default configuration:

- HttpOnly: `true`
- Secure: `true`
- Path: `/`
- SameSite: `Lax`

You can further customize the cookie response by adding the `sidCookieCustomAttributes` and/or the `refreshCookieCustomAttributes` to the service configuration, at application level.
In particular, you can change the `SameSite` attribute to `Strict`, and set the `Domain` and the `Path` attributes to a value of your choice.

Here is an example snippet of the configuration:

```json
... 
    "isWebsiteApp": true,
    "sidCookieCustomAttributes": {
        "sameSite": "Strict",
        "domain": "example.com"
    },
    "refreshCookieCustomAttributes": {
        "sameSite": "Strict",
        "domain": "example.com"
        "path": "/auth"
    }
...
```

Refer to [this documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Set-Cookie) for a thorough explanation of the mentioned cookie attributes.

:::info

For security reasons, you cannot change the other attributes of the cookie, and you cannot set the `SameSite` attribute to `None`.

:::

#### The JWT Token

The authentication service generates a JWT Token compliant with the [RFC 7519 specification](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7519).

In particular, the service populates the standard claims:

- `exp` with the expiration date as unix timestamp
- `iat` with the issuance date as unix timestamp
- `sub` with the `userId`, which is the Mongo Id of the user CRUD document
- `jti` with a random generated UUIDv4
- `iss` with the `issuer` specified in the current application config

Along with the above mentioned standard claims, the token contains a custom claim named `user`, which is an object with the following structure:

```json
{
    "properties": {
        "userId": {
            "type": "string"
        },
        "groups": {
            "type": "array",
            "items": { "type": "string" }
        },
        "email": {
            "type": "string"
        },
        "name": {
            "type": "string"
        },
        "userSettingsURL": {
            "type": "string"
        },
        "providerUserId": {
            "type": "string"
        },
        "metadata": {
            "type": "object",
            "additionalProperties": true
        }
    }
}
```

The data are populated from the user CRUD collection. The `providerUserId` and the `metadata` fields are included and populated only if configured, as explained [here](#custom-claims).

### Refresh token

API Signature: `POST /refreshtoken`

The endpoint `POST /refreshtoken` allows to issue a new token, by using the `refreshToken` received in the Token request.

The endpoint needs to be called with a POST, like in the following example:

```sh
curl --location --request POST 'https://app.example.com/refreshtoken' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data-raw '{
    "refreshToken": {{refreshToken}}
}'
```

Under the hood, the authentication service will call the provider refresh token endpoint, and then it will refresh its token.

The response is the same as the `/oauth/token`:

```json
{
    "accessToken": "my-access-token",
    "refreshToken": "my-refresh-token",
    "expireAt": 1234567890
}
```

In case the `isWebsiteApp` application flag is `true`, the `/refreshtoken` also sets the *sid* and *refresh_token* cookies with the new values.

#### Skip provider refresh token

If in your provider you set the `skipProviderRefreshToken` option, the authentication service will validate the provider refresh token by calling the provider userinfo before issuing the refresh token request.
The refresh token on the provider will only be issued if the validation fails.

### Logout

API Signature: `GET /logout`

This API takes charge of logging out the user, clearing the access token and the refresh token on both server side and, in case of webapps, on the frontend side.

On server side, the tokens are deleted from Redis.

The request should contain the access token in the `Authorization` header and/or the *sid* and *refresh_token* cookies.
It also accepts a request with only the *refresh_token* set: in this case it only deletes the session associated to the given refresh token from Redis, since the access token is already expired.

When `isWebsiteApp` flag is set to true, both the *sid* and *refresh_token* cookies are unset, by means of a `Set-Cookie` response header with expiration dates set in the past.

#### Redirect parameter

Depending on whether you added the `logoutUrl` parameter in the service configuration, at provider level, the `/logout` endpoint will behave differently, as explained below.

##### No `logoutUrl` parameter

If you did not add the `logoutUrl` parameter to the provider configuration, the endpoint will redirect
the user to the specified `redirect` query parameter. You can configure the frontend of your web
application to redirect to the `/logout` endpoint of the provider.

As a result, the user will be signed out from both the provider and the application.

##### With `logoutUrl` parameter

:::info

This behavior works only with the OIDC compliant providers. Please refer to your specific provider documentation to check if it is supported.

The following providers have no support for this feature:

- Bitbucket Server
- Github
- Gitlab

The `logoutUrl` parameter will be ignored in case of non-OIDC compliant providers, and a warning log will be raised.

For OIDC compliant providers, you may need to add the `openid` scope in the provider configuration.

If you use a generic provider you have the responsibility to check for the OIDC compliance, and in case it is not compliant, the endpoint will likely not work as expected.

:::

When called with the `logoutUrl` parameter set in the service configuration, the endpoint will append to it a query string, with the following parameters:

- `post_logout_redirect_uri`: it is set to the `redirect` query parameter, if present. Otherwise, it is not set.
- `id_token_hint`: it is set to the `id_token`, retrieved from the provider during login, and stored in the backend session along with the access token.

The endpoint will then redirect the user to the `logoutUrl` with the appended query string, causing the user to be signed out from both the provider and the application.

## User Info

API Signature: `GET /userinfo`

The `/userinfo` endpoint returns the contents of the `user` claim of the JWT Token.

See the [related section](#get-jwt-token) for more information on how the JWT Token is built and how you can personalize it to achieve a customized userinfo response.

You can contact the endpoint in this way:

```sh
curl --location --request GET 'https://app.example.com/userinfo' \
--header 'Accept: application/json' \
--header 'Authorization: Bearer <access_token>'
```

### Custom claims

If you need to have additional custom claims in the `user` claim of the token and, as a consequence, in the userinfo response, you have to include the  `customTokenClaims` object in the app configuration.

The object contains the following fields:

- `includeProviderUserId`, if set to `true` the `providerUserId` will be included in the `user` claim, and populated with the user id of the provider. The default behavior is not to include the field.
- `metadataFieldsToInclude`,  an array of strings. If it contains at least one element, a  `metadata` object is added to the `user` claim and populated with the specified fields taken from the corresponding `metadata` object of the CRUD user collection.

As an example, consider a user collection like the following:

```json
{
    "_id": "some-mongo-id",
    "name": "John Doe",
    "groups": ["someGroup"],
    "username": "someUsername",
    "email": "johndoe@example.com",
    "providerId": "someProviderId",
    "providerUserId": "some-id",
    "metadata": {
        "firstName": "John",
        "surname": "Doe",
        "address": {
            "city": "Milan",
            "country": "Italy"
        }
    }
}
```

The authentication service can be configured as follows:

```json
{
  "apps": {
    "APP_ID": {
      "providers": {
        "PROVIDER_ID": {
          ...
        }
      },
    ...
    "customTokenClaims": {
        "includeProviderUserId": true,
        "metadataFieldsToInclude": [
                "surname", "address"
            ]
        }
    }
  }
}
```

The configuration snippet above will result in the following JWT token claims:

```json
{
  "user": {
    "userId": "some-mongo-id",
    "groups": [
        "someGroup"
    ],
    "email": "johndoe@example.com",
    "name": "John Doe",
    "providerUserId": "some-id",
    "metadata": {
        "surname": "Doe",
        "address": {
            "city": "Milan"
        }
    }
  },
  "exp": 123456789,
  "jti": "some-jti",
  "iat": 123456789,
  "iss": "some-iss",
  "sub": "some-mongo-id"
}
```

### Integration with the ***Authorization Service***

The `/userinfo` endpoint can be used by the [Authorization Service](/runtime_suite/authorization-service/overview) to determine whether the requested resource can be accessed by the current user, based on the contents of the `groups` array.

You need to set the following variables in the [configuration](/runtime_suite/authorization-service/configuration) with these values:

- **USERINFO_URL**=`http://authentication-service/userinfo` (NB: change the hostname if it has been named differently)
- **CUSTOM_USER_ID_KEY**=`userId`
- **HEADERS_TO_PROXY**=`x-request-id,request-id,cookie,authorization,client-type,host,x-forwarded-host`

#### Custom properties to proxy

If you have configured some [custom claims](#custom-claims) in the authentication service, you can also add them to the authorization service *Custom properties to proxy*.

Just add the name of the fields as a comma-separated list to the following authorization service environment variable:

**USER_PROPERTIES_TO_PROXY**=`metadata,email,name,providerUserId`

This way, a JSON string will be set to an header with name `miauserproperties`, populated with the metadata field of the userinfo response.

Referring to the example above, the header will have the following contents:

```json
{    
    "email": "johndoe@example.com",
    "name": "John Doe",
    "providerUserId": "some-id",
    "metadata": {
        "surname": "Doe",
        "address": {
            "city": "Milan"
        }
    }
}
```

## Token Info

API Signature: `GET /tokeninfo`

:::danger

This endpoint returns potentially confidential information, that a user may not be supposed to have; therefore, depending on your specific use case, you probably don't want to expose it publicly.

:::

This endpoint has the same response of the [userinfo](#user-info), with in addition a `provider` field, populated with the following fields:

- **accessToken**: the access token obtained from the IdP.
- **id**: the provider id of the currently used configuration
- **baseUrl**: the OAuth2 base url of the provider, as set in the configuration
- **userId**: the provider id of the current user

An example of response:

```json
{
    "userId": "63cacfa530a2a89a7f057dce",
    "groups": [
        "testgroup"
    ],
    "email": "some@email.com",
    "name": "John Doe",
    "provider": {
        "accessToken": "provider-token",
        "id": "provider-id",
        "baseUrl": "provider base url",
        "userId": "provider-user-id"
    }
}
```

:::tip

You can use the `/tokeninfo` endpoint as `USERINFO_URL` in the authorization service. This is useful if you want the information included in the `provider` key to be added to the `miauserproperties` header.

:::

## Revoke sessions

:::caution

This API is intended to be used by a privileged user (e.g. an administrator or a customer service operator) or application. Make sure to expose it with a proper authorization config.

:::

API Signature: `DELETE /sessions`

This is an admin feature that revokes all sessions of the specified user. This is useful when the user is being blocked or deleted on the provider side.

You can contact the endpoint this way:

```sh
curl --location --request DELETE 'https://app.example.com/sessions/:userId' \
--header 'Accept: application/json' \
--header 'Authorization: Bearer <access_token>'
```

The endpoint in case of success will reply with status code 200 and the number of deleted elements.
An example of response:

```json
{
    "count": 2
}
```

## Cleanup all users queue

:::caution

This API is intended to be used by a privileged user (e.g. an administrator or a customer service operator) or application (e.g. a cronjob). Make sure to expose it with a proper authorization config.

:::

API Signature: `DELETE-/expired-sessions`

This API is helpful to clean up all the expired sessions of all the users.

This is especially useful when the *STORED_ACCESS_TOKEN_NUMBER* environment variable is a big number, in order to keep stored data in Redis to the minimum.

It's recommended to setup a CronJob that periodically invokes this API; the period can be tuned with respect to the queue length and to other parameters that depend on your use case, such as the number of logins per unit of time.

:::warning

The operation is deliberately non-atomic, as it triggers a potentially long and CPU-intensive task that could block Redis.

:::

In case of success, the endpoint will return a 204 No Content response.

### Cleanup a specific users queue

The endpoint can receive also as a query params a specific userID.
In this case, only the session of the specified user are cleaned up.

Here is an example:

```sh
curl --location --request DELETE 'https://app.example.com/expired-sessions/:userId`' \
--header 'Accept: application/json' \
--header 'Authorization: Bearer <access_token>' 
```

## Webhooks

When a new User is activated on the ID Provider, the UserInfo collection can be synchronized through this webhook.
(Currently only Okta provider is supported)

:::caution

Pay careful attention when configuring the webhook as the endpoint must be properly protected as it may allow anyone to create new user records.

:::

The webhook is made of 2 endpoints:

- **GET** `/webhooks/apps/:appId/providers/:providerId/user` used to validate the hook by the OID Provider
- **POST** `/webhooks/apps/:appId/providers/:providerId/user` used to handle the user activation

### Validate the Webhook (Okta)

In order to validate the webhook, Okta sends a GET request on the webhook url with a specific header `x-okta-verification-challenge` and expects to receive in response the same value of the header.

### Security Configuration

In order to secure these endpoints from unwanted requests (that will end up in users being added to the CRUD collection), you need to secure the Endpoint (for instance using an API Key).

:::warning

Remember to keep the API Key secure and to share it only with who is going to consume the webhook!

:::

## JWT Token signing algorithms

Since v3.6.0 the service provides two methods for the token signing.

### Symmetric signing algorithm HS256 (default)

:::warning

The symmetric signing algorithm is used by default for retrocompatibility reasons.
For new service setups, the usage of an asymmetric algorithm is strongly encouraged.

:::

By default, the service uses the symmetric signing algorithm `HS256` to sign the token. The signing key is provided by means of the `MIA_JWT_TOKEN_SIGN_KEY` env variable.

:::tip

It is suggested to generate and use an HMAC of least of 512 bytes, for example with the following command:

```sh
openssl rand -base64 512
```

:::

### Asymmetric signing algorithm RSA256

The service supports the asymmetric signing algorithm RSA256.

Firstly you need to set the `MIA_JWT_TOKEN_SIGNING_METHOD` env to `RS256`.

Then you need to setup the RSA key pair as explained in the following section.

#### RSA key setup

An RSA key is a type of asymmetric cryptographic key used in public-key cryptography. In an RSA key pair, there are two keys: a **public key** and a **private key**.  
The public key can be freely distributed and is used to encrypt messages that can only be decrypted with the private key. The private key, on the other hand, is kept secret and is used to decrypt the messages that have been encrypted with the public key.

#### Creation

This service accepts a **private RSA key** to sign the generated JWT (JSON Web Token).
NIST recommends at least 2048-bit keys for RSA. An RSA key length of at least 3072 bits should be used if security is required beyond 2030.
In this guide, we will use a key of 4096 bits.

To generate a new private key, you could run:

```sh
openssl genrsa -out ./private.key 4096
```

The service also supports password protected private keys.
To encrypt a private key, firstly generate a random string to be used a password, for example with this command:

```sh
openssl rand -base64 256
```

You can now protect the `private.key` with the password using the following command:

```sh
openssl rsa -aes128 -in privkey.pem -out privkey.pem  -traditional
```

Enter the password when required.

The private key is encrypted and stored in the same `private.key` file, which is overwritten.
Set the generated password to the env `MIA_JWT_TOKEN_PRIVATE_KEY_PASSWORD` to allow the service to decrypt and use the private key.

#### Deploy with mlp

If you use [*mlp*](../../runtime_suite_tools/mlp/overview), the Mia-Platform deploy CLI tool, to release custom secrets add these lines to the `mlp.yaml` file in your project:

```yaml
secrets:
  - name: "authentication-service-private-key"
    when: "always"
    data:
      - from: "literal"
        key: "private.key"
        value: "{{PRIVATE_KEY}}"
```

The `name` is at your discretion; make sure to avoid collisions.

The `PRIVATE_KEY` secret variable must be populated with the `./private.key` file contents.

#### Deploy the secret with Kubernetes

You should set the key as volume from secret in the `authentication-service` service, or in the namespace where the service is deployed.

Refer to the [related Kubernetes doc](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/)

#### Service configuration

To use the private key you generated early, you have to follow these steps:

- set the `MIA_JWT_TOKEN_SIGNING_METHOD` to `RS256`
- set the `MIA_JWT_TOKEN_PRIVATE_KEY_FILE_PATH` to the file name of the mounted private key.
- choose an arbitrary `kid` to the private key (e.g. an UUIDv4), and set it to the `MIA_JWT_TOKEN_PRIVATE_KEY_KID`. It will be used to generate a public key, and also included as `kid` claim in JWT tokens signed with this key.

#### Public Key Endpoint

Endpoint Signature: `GET /.well-known/jwks.json`

As per the [OpenID Connect specs](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0-21.html), the Authentication service exposes this endpoint to obtain an object that contains an array of valid JWK values in its `keys` field.
Those JWKs could be used to verify the signature of the JWT that is presented by a client to another service.

:::info

At the moment, you can configure only one Private Key. For this reason, the endpoint will always return one public key, calculated from the given private key.

:::

Example cURL request:

```shell
curl 'https://example.org/authn/.well-known/jwks.json'
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "keys": [
    {
      "kid": "keyA",
      "use": "sig",
      "kty": "RSA",
      "alg": "RSA256",
      "n": "sR6WjRHDNXgzBTgYr-ayhSlxdt65FIrhTytZN9dZczDC8Uqt6Cynstq3eoAfLcrxKAyj4X3J4TRxSEOL78WUisLAADHU6oEsqeuB97kVN4PcPnd63H3naOiLioc2-9L1TtUMVB4H6G5ZkKQAgrwjpHSztJF0iYaXOQhEcBlCynltuEVuyK96tvnDVqXCfhsSFweP7KorcfMj4YYj5OT2ADlAFzBQ2qppd9BpJidHGD6auCsI7vjmNCEq49v9UOiQs2XbjN-ddr9nvNBBK5bVtjGkfUPNt6uAV1AWMboVjobcAnDH2AD8W--3JUl1ffguC_fsHpPjrNoH0hCbPFfEb2YK2DX1vKhYKX3u199gc4B1q0l1JTs8AJcFbf7d63FKa6O-5V97fLK9lJYd8adF8NZiJlXjFCR-LmAYmjxmsBmByImEenEzDxuuubitSWFt47L9eGV9eY7zmnD0FV_jbwXYCcod4R46vnjabzpUcnd3VqiruUwnquHNGgj2yJpT7CMCHpK9dVlMUY8cWIfYXn4si_RrRp_E2EIkWKkSyplBWMjIK_KhjuSi_YOYNSg3OKXOGmYMcCxXUnwPIIW5n-MdbO6WC8bqhpLU1_XisfaL-V8jEOjAs0dQ9dQyvvP9ckrC753FGARXtdqwnyb2d3r3r3cLh-eQo05TyLqHoEk",
      "e": "AQAB"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Service Metrics

If you set the `EXPOSE_METRICS` environment variable to `true`, the service will expose the `/-/metrics` endpoint, which returns the following metrics:

| Metric Name                     | Description                                   |
| ------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| `http_request_duration_seconds` | The duration of the HTTP requests, in seconds |

It is possible to customize the metrics prefix by setting the `NAMESPACED_METRICS_PREFIX` environment variable. The default value is `authentication_service`.
