---
id: changelog
title: Changelog
sidebar_label: CHANGELOG
---

<!--
WARNING: this file was automatically generated by Mia-Platform Doc Aggregator.
DO NOT MODIFY IT BY HAND.
Instead, modify the source file and run the aggregator to regenerate this file.
-->

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/),
and this project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

## [2.0.0] 2023-11-21

### BREAKING CHANGES
The fix that requires setting the properties specified in the form builder even when a checkbox is not checked has made it mandatory to configure various properties in the `form_schemas` collection. For further details, please refer to the documentation.

## Added

- Support form start date
- Support custom expiration message for each form
- Support custom recap email sender

## [1.9.1] 2023-09-05

## Fixed

- Fixed test scope assertions

## [1.9.0] 2023-08-31

## Added

- Configuration file accepts the field `isMessagingAvailable` and `messagingOptions` for managing notifications via messaging service
- Updated API PUT /visualizer/forms/:id for sending emails at the submission
- Created API GET /templates for retrieving email templates
- Updated API POST /visualizer/forms for sending emails at the submission
- When sending emails, the form data is also transferred to the messaging service
- Updated API POST /send for managing blind carbon copies (BCC)

## [1.8.1] 2023-07-28

### Added

- API GET /visualizer/schemas/:id returns also `formExpirationDate` 
- Configuration file accepts the field `formExpirationDateFormat` in the `formBuilderCustomProperties` object

## [1.8.0] 2023-07-24

### Added

- Configuration file accepts the field `messageToBeShownOnExpiredForm` in the `formVisualizerOptions` object
- Api GET /visualizer/config returns also the new field `messageToBeShownOnExpiredForm`
- POST /builder/schemas endpoints accepts `formExpirationDate` field to set form expiration date
- GET /builder/schemas/:id endpoint returns also the `formExpirationDate` field
- PUT /builder/schemas/:id is possible to $set and $unset the `formExpirationDate` field

### Fixed 

- Fix documentation links

## [1.7.1] 2023-03-31

- Add Excel compatibility flag to CSV form export
- Fix wrong number of forms returned in CSV

## [1.7.0] 2023-02-22

### Added

- Add GET /visualizer/forms/export endpoint.
- Add export lookup configuration.
- Add export lookup.
- Improve Excel compatibility of the CSV file.
- Extract form fields from schema.
- Return empty CSV with headers.
- Export to CSV fields extracted from the form schema.
- Add export fields and redirects.

## [1.6.0] 2023-02-06

### Fixed

- Fix GET: forms/:id. Endpoint now set isEditable correctly retrieving draft data.

### Added

- Form service backend now include form assignments in autosave procedure.

## [1.5.0] 2023-01-03

### BREAKING CHANGES
The autosave feature includes a change in the service calls for data storage, which now require two additional fields that are required.

### Changed

- Update CRUD client GET, DELETE, and POST to match CRUD's endpoint paths.

#### Note
Caution: be careful that the submitUrl exposes methods correctly. Read documentation for details, in particular the [Form submit urls parameters](./20_configuration.md#form-submit-urls-parameters) section.

### Added

- Draft Endpoint added.
- Form Service Backend now edits drafts.
- Delete Endpoint added. Form Service Backend now deletes forms and drafts.
- Now formSchamaId of Drafts is not required.
- Visualizer Config Endpoint added.
- Added query param _status to GET /visualizer/forms/:id endpoint to retrieve the draft data if "_status" equals "draft".
- Autosave documentation added.
- Now the Draft endpoint create a new draft if formId is defined but the draft has not been created yet.
- Edit to add hasDraft and isValid tags to forms.
- Added to documentation hasDraft and isValid properties.

## [1.4.0] 2022-06-23

### Added

- Form Service Backend now supports the form data versioning, by passing (if configured) the `_v` to the `submit_url` endpoint.

### Changed

- Form validator removal.

### Fixed

- Form Service Backend now does not reply with `500` status code when CRUD POST returns `2xx` response different from `200`.

## [1.3.0] 2022-03-22

### Added

- Form visualizer styling support updating `GET /visualizer/schemas/:id` and `GET /visualizer/forms/:id` routes to return style assets associated to a form template.

## [1.2.2] 2022-03-22

### Added

- Provide templating options to the Form Visualizer.
- Documentation for the Form Visualizer options.

### Fixed

- Fixed support for external submit URLs and submit URLs with explicit port.
- Backward compatibility issue that required the `formSchemaCrud` object in the configuration even if it's optional.
- Update documentation links to download example .json files to fix link not opening in a new browser tab.
- Improved documentation by adding the description of the *submit URLs*.

## [1.2.1] 2021-12-15

### Changed

- Update ACL controls relying only on manual and automatic assignments.

## [1.2.0] 2021-12-09

### Fixed

- Remove payload log in `POST` an `PUT` endpoints.

### Changed

- `PUT /visualizer/schemas/:id` updated to handle `$set` and `$unset` body.

### Added

- Inject configurable or default client type if missing in the request's headers in all handlers.
- New endpoint`GET /visualizer/assignments/:id/schema-id`.
- `GET /visualizer/schemas/:id` updated to handle isPrivate and isEditable.
- `PUT /visualizer/schemas/:id` updated to handle isPrivate and isEditable.
- `POST /visualizer/forms` updated to handle isPrivate and previous submission checks.
- `GET /visualizer/schemas/:id` updated to handle isPrivate and groups.
- Introducing isPrivate, isEditable and user groups properties.

## [1.1.1] 2021-11-05

### Added

- Return options object from formSchemaMapCrud if any in the response of `GET|PUT /visualizer/forms/{id}` endpoints.
- Prevent a submitted form update if options object from formSchemaMapCrud contains readOnly property equal to `true`.

### Fixed

- Fixing issue on form validation (validation now skips `customConditional` elements).

## [1.1.0] 2021-06-28

### Added

- Form data validation in the backend through the use of a Validator. Form validation is enabled for visualizer POST and PUT operations.

## [1.0.0] 2021-06-10

### Added

- Initial form service backend implementation. Added APIs to manage form schemas and form submissions.
