---
id: v12.0.1
title: Version 12.0.1 Release Notes
sidebar_label: v12.0.1
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

_December 21th, 2023_

## Console

### Improvements

#### MongoDB CRUD section now manages Fast Data `sv-error` collection

Fast Data collection `sv-error` is now visible in the MongoDB CRUD section.

### Bug Fix

This version addressed a few bugs, here is a comprehensive list:

* a bug has been fixed that causes the user to lose local changes in case of exiting the Design Area after a successful merge process
* fixed a bug that, upon failure of namespaces deletion when deleting a project, caused the respective feedback not to be displayed to the user
* fixed a bug that caused a file handling error in Console editors

## Fast Data

### Fast Data Configurator

#### Bug Fix

This version addressed a few bugs, here is a comprehensive list:

* creation of duplicate indexes now displays an error alert
* multiple unique indexes in projections now displays a warning alert
* fixed Aggregation error with not existing or unreachable dependencies
* fix service name in Single View Trigger Generator service configuration page
* fix on the Single View Creator configuration where the Single View Trigger Configuration was deleted after updating 
* no Code Aggregation supports field of type `string` with format `date-time` or `date`
* no Code Aggregation translation fix on fields of unrecognized type

### Fast Data Services

#### Single View Creator

The new version `v6.3.0` of the _Single View Creator_ is available!

##### New Features

* introduce Single View Retry mechanism, which allows to try aggregating again Single View records that encounter transient errors.
More details can be found in the dedicated [documentation section](/fast_data/configuration/single_view_creator/index.md#single-view-retry)
* introduce support to version [`v2.0.0`](/fast_data/inputs_and_outputs.md#message-format-v200-1) of Single View Update event.
By default, the service will continue producing events using `v1.0.0`, whereas the new version be opted-in by setting `SV_UPDATE_VERSION` environment variable to `v2.0.0`.  
More details on this feature can be found in the message [documentation paragraph](/fast_data/inputs_and_outputs.md#single-view-update-message)

##### Bug Fix

This version addressed a few bugs, here is a comprehensive list:

* Single View `NO_SV_GENERATED` error is now tracked only when generating a Single View record leads to an empty aggregation
results **and** the corresponding record was not previously existing on the database.
This allows to distinguish between _delete_ operations, which are not tracked anymore, from actual aggregation errors.

For more information check out the service [changelog](/runtime_suite/single-view-creator/changelog.md).

## Microfrontend Composer

### Back-Kit Library

The new version `v1.4.9` of the back-kit library is available!

Refer to back-kit [changelog](/microfrontend-composer/back-kit/changelog.md) for finer-grained details of new versions.

#### Bug Fix

This version addressed a few bugs, here is a comprehensive list:

* `bk-form-wizard` component correctly handles consecutive steps with same fields
* `bk-form-wizard` component correctly holds values of hidden fields
* Form components correctly use monaco editor component to render object / array fields

## Marketplace

### Marketplace Updates

#### CRUD Service

The new version `v6.9.4` of the CRUD Service is available!

##### Improvements

* Writable Views documentation has been overhauled to clarify their use case, limitations and how to configure them
* indexes creation at startup has been refactored to limit the number of connections concurrently opened
* MongoDB's connection parameter `maxIdleTimeMs` is now customizable on the service according to your needs 

##### Bug Fix

This version addressed a few bugs, here is a comprehensive list:

* Writable Views now properly support lookups adopting a _one-to-many_ relationship (multiple values
are returned by the `$lookup` operation in the view aggregation pipeline)

For more information please check out the service [changelog](/runtime_suite/crud-service/changelog.md).

#### Flow Manager Service

The new version `v2.6.3` of the Flow Manager Service is available!

##### New Features

###### Improved schemas of exposed endpoints

All the endpoints exposed by the service now have tag `Flow Manager` in their schema. Moreover, endpoint `/configuration` is now hidden from service Swagger.

###### Redacted Mongo connection

If the service mount a persistency manager of type `mongo`, the property `connectionUri` will now be redacted from logs.

###### Added possibility to deep merge saga metadata upon events reception

Upon events reception, saga metadata can now be deep merged. Moreover, the service can be instructed to perform specific merging behaviors using an optional custom function.

To learn more about this feature, check out the dedicated [documentation page](/runtime_suite/flow-manager-service/30_configuration.md#settings).

## How to update your Console

For self-hosted installations, please head to the [self hosted upgrade guide](/infrastructure/self-hosted/installation-chart/100-how-to-upgrade.md#v12---version-upgrades) or contact your Mia-Platform referent and upgrade to _Console Helm Chart_ `v11.0.4`.
