---
id: v12.1.0
title: Version 12.1.0 Release Notes
sidebar_label: v12.1.0
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

_January 18th, 2024_


:::info
Mia-Platform Console v12.1.0 is **now in Preview!**

Console SaaS users can try out v12.1.0 latest improvements in Preview! Open a Service Request to ask for the creation of a sandbox Company in case you do not have access to any Company.

For self-hosted installations, please read the [following guidelines](#how-to-update-your-console).
:::

## Console

### New Features

#### New Console backoffice configuration using Mia-Platform Microfrontend Composer

Console CMS has been replaced with a new backoffice adopting Mia-Platform Microfrontend Composer. 
At runtime, there will be micro-lc that replaces the previously adopted cms-backend, cms-site and v1-adapter.

For self-hosted installations, take a look at the information given on the [How to upgrade Console guide](/infrastructure/self-hosted/installation-chart/100-how-to-upgrade.md#v12---version-upgrades).

#### New User events for the Webhook section

User events have been added that allow a Company Owner to configure and trigger specific webhooks when changes to user access management occur.

Listed below are the events that have been added with this release:

* User added to Company
* User Company role edited.
* User removed from Company
* User added to Project
* User removed from Project

For more information regarding individual events, please [go to the documentation](/development_suite/webhooks-and-events/events.mdx#user-added-to-company).

#### Complete Company access management through `miactl`

The new version of `miactl` allows complete management of all identities access to the Company.
More specifically, starting from today it will be possible to add, modify and remove any type of identity (User, Service Account, Group) simply through command line.

For more information on the specific commands introduced, please [go to the documentation](/cli/miactl/30_commands.md).

### Improvements

#### Improved User session management in Console

The Console now features a new modal that activates upon session expiry, preventing further interactions and allowing users to seamlessly re-login, ensuring their ongoing work is not lost.

#### Enhanced default branch management for Template and Example creation

The default branch handling during pipeline setup from Marketplace Templates and Examples creation has been improved. Now, when creating those resources, if the branch is not specified within the pipeline definition, the provider will dynamically retrieve the repository's default branch in which the pipeline is located, instead of statically selecting the master branch.

### Bug Fix

This version addressed a few bugs, here is a comprehensive list:

* fixed a bug that caused configurations not to be saved if removal of certain types of microservices had previously been performed.

## Fast Data

### Fast Data Configurator

#### New Features

##### Added possibility to clone Projections and Single Views

Projections and Single Views can now be duplicated in the respective sections.

##### Added condition query in no-code ER Schema relationship detail panel

From now on, ER Schema conditions content is shown next to their name in the Aggregation No Code.

##### Added possibility to export referenced resources

Resources [imported](/fast_data/configuration/import_export.md#import) as references into a Project can now be re-exported alongside the other resources of the Project.

#### Improvements

##### Unknown strategy utilization warning

A warning will be displayed in the strategies page if a Single View Creator uses a strategy that does not correspond to any of the strategies linked to that Single View.

##### Prevent removal of Single Views and Projections with attached endpoints

It is not possible anymore to delete a Single View or a Projection with attached endpoints without first deleting said endpoints.

## Microfrontend Composer

### Back-Kit Library

The new version `v1.4.12` of the back-kit library is available!

Refer to back-kit [changelog](/microfrontend-composer/back-kit/changelog.md) for finer-grained details of new versions.

#### Improvements

##### Geopoint field coordinates order can be specified

Geopoint fields support `geopointFormat` option is available in data-schema `formOptions`, allowing to configure whether the Form components read them as `[latitude, longitude]` or `[longitude, latitude]`

#### Bug Fix

This version addressed a few bugs, here is a comprehensive list:

* `bk-calendar` allows to open appointment details in "week" and "day" views by clicking on the respective item

## Marketplace

### Marketplace Updates

## How to update your Console

For self-hosted installations, please head to the [self hosted upgrade guide](/infrastructure/self-hosted/installation-chart/100-how-to-upgrade.md#v12---version-upgrades) or contact your Mia-Platform referent and upgrade to _Console Helm Chart_ `v11.1.0-beta.0`.
