---
id: v12.2.0
title: Version 12.2.0 Release Notes
sidebar_label: v12.2.0
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

_February 01st, 2024_


:::info
Mia-Platform Console v12.2.0 is **now in Preview!**

Console SaaS users can try out v12.2.0 latest improvements in Preview! Open a Service Request to ask for the creation of a sandbox Company in case you do not have access to any Company.

For self-hosted installations, please read the [following guidelines](#how-to-update-your-console).
:::

## Data Catalog

The first version of Mia-Platform Data Catalog is available! This powerful addition to our platform is designed to have a centralized repository that stores metadata and information about the data assets that you want to collect. Its key features are:

* Metadata Collection: A service Agent is in charge of reading metadata from data sources and sending them to Mia-Platform Console. At the moment the supported Data Sources are Oracle Database (supported versions from 11 to 21), MySQL Database (supported versions from 5.7 to 8.2), Microsoft SQL Server Database (supported versions from 2017 to 2022), and PostgreSQL Database (version supported versions from 9.6 to 16).
* Centralized Metadata Management: Easily access comprehensive metadata for all your data assets. It is possible to enrich the metadata with more needed information such as data sensitivity all in one centralized location.
* Everything in one place: it is possible to seamlessly see all the data under the __Design Overview__ section of your __Company settings__. It is also possible to export such data as CSV file.

How to Get Started:

To start using the Data Catalog, simply follow the [documentation](add link).

TODO: add screenshot

## Console

### Improvements

#### Automatic commit message generation

From now, when saving configuration in Design Area, a commit message is automatically suggested. Then, user can decide to overwrite the commmit message, or proceed directly to save configuration.

### Bug Fix

This version addressed a few bugs, here is a comprehensive list:

## Fast Data

### Fast Data Configurator

#### Bug Fix

This version addressed a few bugs, here is a comprehensive list:

* clicking outside the drawer when editing a collection property will no longer close the drawer causing the loss of unsaved edits
* boolean values inside the no-code ER Schema rules editor can now be set correctly
* removing a Single View field will now cause the removal of said field from the aggregation configuration
* importing from DDL will no longer prevent configuration saving
* improved copy regarding multiple unique indexes warning in projections

## Microfrontend Composer

### Back-Kit Library

The new version `v1.4.14` of the back-kit library is available!

Refer to back-kit [changelog](/microfrontend-composer/back-kit/changelog.md) for finer-grained details of new versions.

#### Improvements

##### Custom Locale can be specified

Components allow to specify custom texts with `customLocale` property. Both overriding default copies and specifying new translations is possible.

##### New component `bk-dynamic-iframe`

Component `bk-dynamic-iframe` is available. It allows to render an iframe with a dynamic source url, which depends on the window url.

##### `bk-footer` loading can be initialized

Component `bk-footer` has property `loadingOnStart`, controlling whether or not the component is initially in loading state

##### Field lables as column names in export

Component `bk-export-modal` allows to specify whether to use field ids or field labels as column names in the exported file

##### Default extra sorting property is available

Component `bk-crud-client` allows to specify additional sorting property to be appended to `_s` search parameter

##### Client components can reroute HTTP requests

Client components allow to specify rerouting rules for HTTP requests via `reroutingRules` property


#### Bug Fix

This version addressed a few bugs, here is a comprehensive list:

* `bk-dropdown` correctly displays icon specified in `iconId`
* `bk-crud-lookup-client` keeps spaces inserted by the user in the input field inside the query for lookup deps
* Fixed text-area borders in form components

## Marketplace

### Marketplace Updates

#### Improved Marketplace items lifecycle

We have introduced the `deprecated` stage as the final step of the lifecycle of a Marketplace item.  
From now on, once the deprecated stage has been set, the related Marketplace item will show a `deprecated` badge on the card and a warning banner in the detail page of such item.

## How to update your Console

For self-hosted installations, please head to the [self hosted upgrade guide](/infrastructure/self-hosted/installation-chart/100-how-to-upgrade.md#v12---version-upgrades) or contact your Mia-Platform referent and upgrade to _Console Helm Chart_ `vX.X.X`.
