---
id: v13.0.1
title: Version 13.0.1 Release Notes
sidebar_label: v13.0.1
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

_June 06th, 2024_

:::info
Mia-Platform Console v13.0.1 is **now in Preview** and will be generally available on June 20th.

Console SaaS users can try out v13.0.1 latest improvements in Preview! Open a Service Request to ask for the creation of a sandbox Company in case you do not have access to any Company.

For self-hosted installations, please read the [following guidelines](#how-to-update-your-console).
:::

## Console

### Clone configuration of a Sidecar

From the `Sidecars` section, you can now clone an existing configuration of a Sidecar to other Microservices. You can perform such action by simply clicking on the new "Add to another microservice" button available in the detail of each Sidecar and select the configuration you want to clone and the target Microservices in which to attach such Sidecar configuration. 

For more information, please refer to the [Sidecars documentation page](/console/design-your-projects/sidecars.md#clone-a-sidecar).

### Improvements

### Improved Console navigation with `ctrl/cmd + k`

The navigation with `ctrl/cmd + k` has been revised and improved for a better user experience when navigating among resources. Users can now easily see which Companies and Projects they belong to and can quickly search within these resources and seamlessly jump to them.

### Delete a Microservice in `Advanced` tab

The experience of deleting a Microservice has been revised: from now on, if you want to delete a Microservice, you need to do so within the `Advanced` tab in the Microservice detail page.

### Raw Manifest Configuration in `Advanced` tab

Configuring the raw manifest of a Microservice is now possible within the `Advanced` tab in the Microservice detail page.

### Git repository name validation accepts aldo dots

In the creation of a template or an example, you can now insert dots inside the Git Repository Name, as the validation now allows such inclusion.

### Human readable error validations in Create new branch modal & Project creation page

Error validations when trying to create a new Branch or a new Project appear now more human readable, improving clarity and user understanding.

### Enable Microservice metric gathering in a `Monitoring` tab

From now on, the Microservice monitoring can be managed in the `Monitoring` tab of each microservice.

### Bug Fix

This version addressed the following bugs:

* we fixed a bug that wrongly flashed the Create Project button when entering a Company without the Company Owner role
* we fixed the flicker of nodes and edges on configuration or selection changes in Flow Manager section

## Fast Data

### Fast Data Configurator

#### Bug Fix

This version addressed the following bug:

* 

### Fast Data Services

## Microfrontend Composer

### Configurator

#### Improvements

##### Possibility to manage multiple Composer instances

The new version of the Microfrontend Composer Configurator provides you the possibility to handle and configure more than one micro-lc Middleware services per project allowing, for example, to manage both the Dev Portal and the Microfrontend Composer at the same time.

### Back-Kit Library

The new version `v1.5.3` of the back-kit library is available!

Refer to back-kit [changelog](https://git.tools.mia-platform.eu/platform/microfrontend-composer/back-kit/-/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md) for finer-grained details of new versions.

#### Bug Fix

This version addresses the following bugs:

- Fixed bug that caused browser not to follow logout redirection
- Fixed broken link in readonly file fields
- Fixed the `bk-export-modal` bug related to the duplication of date format options when changing page
- The `customMessageOnAbsentDate` property of `bk-card` component now supports boolean values

## Marketplace

### New Marketplace Components

### Marketplace Updates

## How to update your Console

For self-hosted installations, please head to the [self hosted upgrade guide](/infrastructure/self-hosted/installation-chart/100_how-to-upgrade.md) or contact your Mia-Platform referent and upgrade to _Console Helm Chart_ ``.
