---
id: v13.4.0
title: Version 13.4.0 Release Notes
sidebar_label: v13.4.0
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

_November 21th, 2024_

:::info
Mia-Platform Console v13.4.0 - Fall Release is **now in Preview** and will be generally available on December 5th.

Console SaaS users can try out v13.4.0 - Fall Release latest improvements in Preview! Open a Service Request to ask for the creation of a sandbox Company in case you do not have access to any Company.

For self-hosted installations, please read the [following guidelines](#how-to-update-your-console).
:::

## Improved Resource Management in the Software Catalog

In this release, we’ve enhanced the Software Catalog with new features to improve resource management. Users can now create new items, as well as create new versions for items that support versioning. Additionally, we’ve introduced the ability to delete both individual items and their versions, offering more flexibility in managing resources within the catalog. 

For more details, please refer to [the documentation](/software-catalog/manage-items/software-catalog-ui/overview.md).

## Console

### Improvements

### Bug Fix

This version addressed the following bugs:

* 

## Fast Data

### Fast Data Services

## Data Catalog

## Microfrontend Composer

### Back-Kit Library

The new version `v1.5.10` of the back-kit library is available!

Refer to back-kit [changelog](/microfrontend-composer/back-kit/changelog.md) for finer-grained details of new versions.

#### Improvements

##### New format for dates

By specifying `format: date` or `format: time` and adding the flag `isPartialFormat` to true in `formOptions` it is now possible to use dates and time as simple strings and not ISO format.

#### Bug Fix

- Fixed query for writable views' lookup
- fixed typo in italian label on export/import delimiter option

## Marketplace

### Marketplace Updates

#### Audit Trail

The first version of the Audit Trail sidecar is available now!

This sidecar allows you to collect audit logs from your microservice through a shared log file and sends them to Kafka after being processed and enriched with metadata.

Check the sidecar documentation for additional information about architecture, configuration and usage.

#### Care Kit

A new version `2.9.1` of Care Kit is out!

The new version includes upgrade to Node.js (now using v20) and several dependencies, plus some fixes to the existing components `ck-threshold-modal` and `add-plan-modal`. The first version of a new component `roles-and-permissions-modal` to manage roles and permissions is also introduced. 

#### FHIR Adapter

A new patch version `1.0.4` of the FHIR Adapter is out!

This version includes important updates to Node.js (now using v20) and its dependencies.

#### Form Service

A new minor version `2.1.0` of the Form Service Frontend is out!

This version introduces the ability to customize the title of the expired modal, plus brings important upgrades to its dependencies.

#### Messaging Service

The new version `1.7.1` of the Messaging Service is out!

In this release we replace automatically newline escape sequences (`\n`, `\n\r`, `\r` and `\r\n`) with  the `<br/>` tag in HTML email messages.

#### Notification Manager

The new version `2.4.1` of the Notification Manager is out!

This version introduces a streamlined way to display all the notification messages sent on a Backoffice page. By leveraging a MongoDB view, all the most common Backoffice features and components (table, filters and pagination) are supported out of the box.

Also, a bug has been fixed that caused notification settings to be not merged correctly when the `rule` field was not set.

#### Teleconsultation Service

The new version `2.0.1` of the Teleconsultation Service - both Backend and Frontend - is out!

This patch version includes improvements and fixes to the documentation, default security policies and UI copies.

#### Therapy and Monitoring Manager

The new version `0.5.1` of the Therapy and Monitoring Manager is out!

This minor version brings some dependency updates, plus some fixes and improvements in the integrated threshold validation, in particular now the validation results are stored alongside the detection.
Also, a new `values` field is available in the prototypes to map a human-readable name of a detection property to the object path where the corresponding value is stored, such allowing to have nested or array fields in the detection schema while keeping a more human-friendly property name to display to the user.

## How to update your Console

For self-hosted installations, please head to the [self hosted upgrade guide](/infrastructure/self-hosted/installation-chart/100_how-to-upgrade.md) or contact your Mia-Platform referent and upgrade to _Console Helm Chart_ `x.x.x`.

