---
id: v13.6.1
title: Version 13.6.1 Release Notes
sidebar_label: v13.6.1
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

_February 20th, 2025_

:::info
Mia-Platform Console v13.6.1 is **now in Preview** and will be generally available on March 06th.

Console SaaS users can try out v13.6.1 latest improvements in Preview! Open a Service Request to ask for the creation of a sandbox Company in case you do not have access to any Company.

For self-hosted installations, please read the [following guidelines](#how-to-update-your-console).
:::

## Console

### Improvements

#### Auto-generated form in Infrastructure Resource Creation

For Marketplace Infrastructure Resources with configured JSON schemas, the creation process within the Design area offers an auto-generated form. This form facilitates the input of all required properties, each accompanied by a user-oriented description.

To discover more about this feature, go to the [respective documentation](/software-catalog/manage-items/mia-ctl/create/create-item-by-type/create_infrastructure_resource.mdx#generate-dynamic-form-of-the-to-customize-validation-of-your-infrastructure-resource).

#### Custom label selector support for Projects import 

We added support for custom label selectors when performing a Kubernetes workload import into your Project from existing files.

To discover more about the import feature, head to the [miactl commands documentation](/cli/miactl/30_commands.md).

## Fast Data

### Fast Data Services

#### Real Time Updater

The new version `v7.11.1` of the _Real Time Updater_ is available!

##### Fixed

-`kafka-importer-lib` to `v7.10.2`: Previously, when the operations were not executed in order, some strategies were inadvertently skipped. Now, the behavior has been fixed, allowing that only the strategies that should be skipped are actually excluded from execution.  

For more information check out the service [changelog](/runtime_suite/real-time-updater/changelog.md).

## Marketplace

### Marketplace Updates

#### API Portal

A new version `2.2.0` of API Portal is out!

This update introduces several new features aimed at enhancing customization and flexibility:
- **Custom Logo and Favicon**: You can now personalize your API Portal by uploading a custom logo and/or favicon for a more branded experience.
- **Custom Prefix for /api/openapi/ Endpoints**: A new option allows you to set a custom prefix for your `/api/openapi/` endpoints.
- **Global Server Selection**: We've added a global server selector, enabling you to choose the desired server for your API endpoints from a centralized location.

## How to update your Console

For self-hosted installations, please head to the [self hosted upgrade guide](/infrastructure/self-hosted/installation-chart/100_how-to-upgrade.md) or contact your Mia-Platform referent and upgrade to _Console Helm Chart_ `v13.10.1-beta.0`.
