---
id: v13.3.0
title: Version 13.3.0 Release Notes
sidebar_label: v13.3.0 - Fall Release
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

export const Highlight = ({children, color}) => (
  <span
    style={{
      backgroundColor: color,
      borderRadius: '8px',
      color: '#131111',
      padding: '0.3rem',
    }}>
    {children}
  </span>
);

_October 24th, 2024_

:::info
Mia-Platform Console v13.3.0 - Fall Release is **now in Preview** and will be generally available on November 21st.

Console SaaS users can try out v13.3.0 - Fall Release latest improvements in Preview! Open a Service Request to ask for the creation of a sandbox Company in case you do not have access to any Company.

For self-hosted installations, please read the [following guidelines](#how-to-update-your-console).
:::

## Console

### Support to all infrastructure Resources in Design

With this release, we are excited to introduce the ability to manage infrastructure provisioning by configuring your Infrastructure Resources at the Design level.
A new "Infrastructure" section has been added within the Design of your Console, fully dedicated to Infrastructure as Code!

For more information, please visit the [documentation page](/console/design-your-projects/custom-resources/custom-resources.md) and explore some helpful [use cases](/console/design-your-projects/custom-resources/use-cases.md).

### Support to Kubernetes Resources in the Runtime area 

With the v13.3.0 it is now possible to monitor directly in the Runtime area all the Custom Resources deployed for your project, on each environment on it.

For each resource you will be able to access its detail where you will see the respective Describe and Events that are generated, similarly to the other resources in the Runtime Area.

To discover more, please refer to the [documentation](/console/design-your-projects/custom-resources/custom-resources.md).

### Introducing the Mia-Platform Software Catalog

The Mia-Platform Software Catalog offers a centralized solution for tracking, managing, and documenting software resources across the company. It provides visibility into software ownership, metadata, lifecycle status, and versions, helping teams ensure accountability and avoid duplication of efforts.

For more information and to see the currently supported resources, please refer to the [documentation](/software-catalog/overview.md) for detailed insights on the Software Catalog.

### View version updates of Marketplace resources in your configuration

From this release, you will be able to see, within your configuration, your Marketplace resources that have a new version update available.  
This will allow you to be notified and keep your resources updated easily and frictionlessly!

### Add External Links in Console with the Extensibility manager

We have enhanced our Platforge extensibility kit by adding external links among the supported extensions. You can now add this type of link in the sidebar from the Extension Manager in Console.

### Extend Mia-Platform Console pages using Microfrontend Composer | <Highlight color="#e5c762">BETA</Highlight>

With a view to further enhancing our Platforge toolkit dedicated to Console extensibility, we also introduced the possibility of composing Console pages using the Microfrontend Composer. 
To do this, all you have to do is go to the Extensions manager at Company level, add an extension by selecting the ‘Create with Composer’ option and start customizing the new section you want to add!


Please note that this feature has now been released in Beta.

### Improvements

#### New Flow Manager Configurator look

We’ve refreshed the look of the Flow Manager Configurator with updated graphics, new colors, and several design improvements to enhance the overall user experience and visual appeal.

### Bug Fix

This version addressed the following bugs:

* 
* 
* 

## Fast Data

### Fast Data Configurator

### Fast Data Services

#### Projection Storer

The new version `1.3.2` of the Projection Storer service is available!

##### Improvements

* Introduced the support for connecting to the storage using TLS/SSL connection. For more information about how to configure it, visit the related SSL connection [documentation](/fast_data/configuration/projection_storer.md#ssl-connection)

## Data Catalog

## Microfrontend Composer

### Back-Kit Library

The new version `v1.5.9` of the back-kit library is available!

Refer to back-kit [changelog](/microfrontend-composer/back-kit/changelog.md) for finer-grained details of new versions.

#### Improvements

##### New keyword to get the current time

It is now possible to add new key `$dateNow` in handlebars to retrieve current date time in ISO format in http requests.

## Marketplace

## How to update your Console

For self-hosted installations, please head to the [self hosted upgrade guide](/infrastructure/self-hosted/installation-chart/100_how-to-upgrade.md) or contact your Mia-Platform referent and upgrade to _Console Helm Chart_ `v13.X.X`.
