---
id: v13.1.1
title: Version 13.1.1 Release Notes
sidebar_label: v13.1.1
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

_September 12th, 2024_

:::info
Mia-Platform Console v13.1.1 is **now in Preview** and will be generally available on September 27th.

Console SaaS users can try out v13.1.1 latest improvements in Preview! Open a Service Request to ask for the creation of a sandbox Company in case you do not have access to any Company.

For self-hosted installations, please read the [following guidelines](#how-to-update-your-console).
:::

## Console

### New Features

#### Kubernetes downward APIs as environment variables on services

The Kubernetes Downward API feature now allows applications to access Pod-specific information via environment variables. This enhances flexibility by decoupling apps from the Kubernetes API, enabling access to Pod details like name, namespace, and annotations for monitoring and logic purposes.



### Improvements

#### Flow Manager configurator supports Flow Manager version 2.6.5

No-code configurability has been added for the new features introduced with Flow Manager version `2.6.5`. Namely:

- the possibility to add a JSON schema validation for events payload
- a setting to raise errors on events that are not mapped as outgoing transitions for the current state

### Bug Fix

This version addressed the following bugs:

* we fixed a bug that was not showing the Extensions section when navigating via ctrl/cmd + k
* we addressed a wrong redirect when refreshing the Extensions page

## Fast Data

### Fast Data Runtime Management

#### Bug Fix

## Microfrontend Composer

### Configurator

#### Improvements

##### Template not required when creating a compose page

When creating a new page of type _compose_, choosing a staring template is no longer required. If none is chosen an empty page will be created.

## Marketplace

### Marketplace Updates

#### Flow Manager

The new version `2.6.5` of the Flow Manager is available!

##### New Features

- Added possibility to specify an optional JSON schema validation for incoming events payload
- Added a setting to control whether or not unexpected events (i.e., events that are not mapped as outgoing transitions for the current saga state) should raise an error

## How to update your Console

For self-hosted installations, please head to the [self hosted upgrade guide](/infrastructure/self-hosted/installation-chart/100_how-to-upgrade.md) or contact your Mia-Platform referent and upgrade to _Console Helm Chart_ `x.x.x`.

