---
id: v13.0.6
title: Version 13.0.6 Release Notes
sidebar_label: v13.0.6
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

_August 01st, 2024_

:::info
Mia-Platform Console v13.0.6 is **now in Preview** and will be generally available on August 01st.

Console SaaS users can try out v13.0.6 latest improvements in Preview! Open a Service Request to ask for the creation of a sandbox Company in case you do not have access to any Company.

For self-hosted installations, please read the [following guidelines](#how-to-update-your-console).
:::

## Console

### Improvements

#### Updated Assistant UX

With this release, Mia-Assistant UX has been completely revised, featuring a floating popup you can drag around and resize at will. This improvement has been thought to allow you using the Console while chatting with Mia-Assistant without losing the focus on what you are currently working on!

#### `mlp`

A new version of the Mia-Platform CLI, `mlp`, `v2.0.0-beta` version is available! It comes with the following new features:

* the `deploy` command now will wait for status updates on the released workloads;
* use a ConfigMap as inventory storage instead of a Secret;
* rewrite the flow for managing ExternalSecret and SecretStore resources;
* support `initContainers` env values from Secret and ConfigMap for evaluating the dependencies checksum;
* support kubernetes auth plugins for managing logins via cloud vendors integrations.

### Bug Fix

This version addressed the following bugs:

- more than 20 tags are now available in the design and deploy sections, the tag list limit has been increased to 100.

## Marketplace

### New Marketplace Components

### Marketplace Updates

#### Care Kit

The new version `2.8.2` of the Care Kit library is available!

##### New features

* `add-plan-modal`: add support for monitoring plan devices
* `am-calendar`: the component now uses backoffice color theme
* `am-calendar`: add `eventResourceId` configuration property to choose which event property is used by the calendar to link to the resource
* `ck-availability-modal`: add new component 
* `import-users`, `reset-password`: add support for translation
* Add jobUpsert parameter to import users job

##### Bug Fix

* `am-calendar`: fixed bug causing the component to disappear when all the resources are filtered out
* `am-calendar`: update the event sent to open the modal to book a slot to match the event listened by the `ck-book-slot-modal` component

#### SMS Service

The new version `1.2.1` of the SMS Service is available!

##### New features

* Replace IP-based rate limiter with global rate limiter to prevent distributed attacks

## How to update your Console

For self-hosted installations, please head to the [self hosted upgrade guide](/infrastructure/self-hosted/installation-chart/100_how-to-upgrade.md) or contact your Mia-Platform referent and upgrade to _Console Helm Chart_ `vX.X.X`.
