---
id: v13.0.0
title: Version 13.0.0 Release Notes
sidebar_label: v13.0.0
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

_May 09th, 2024_

**Welcome to Mia-Platform v13!**

## Console

### Support to iFrame Extensions in Console 

From now on, you can embed external web pages within Mia-Platform Console using iFrames. You can therefore register, activate and manage your extensions via API directly from our API Portal. This feature can enhance your experience and improve the customization of your working space by effortlessly integrating tools, dashboards, and other external content directly into our IDP.

The supported sections of the Console where you can add such extensions are at Company and Project level, as well as the Runtime section of your Project.

To discover more about how to register and activate an iFrame extension in Console, please refer to the related [documentation page]() 

### Mia-Assistant, the AI chatbot of Mia-Platform

Mia-Platform Console now has its own AI chatbot: let's welcome Mia-Assistant!

:::info  
Please note that this feature is still in an Experimental phase: feel free to give us feedback in order to help us improve it!
:::

From anywhere on the Console, you can interact with Mia-Assistant, an AI chatbot that will help you simplify your experience when using the Console. 
You can ask Mia-Assistant any question related to the Mia-Platform context: it will answer and provide the related Mia-Platform documentation reference, to help you retrieve all the information you need!

You only need to simply click on the new "Ask to Mia-Assistant" button and try it out!

### Improvements

### Bug Fix

This version addressed the following bugs:

* bug 1
* bug 2

## Fast Data

### Fast Data Configurator

#### Bug Fix

This version addressed the following bugs:

* bug 1
* bug 2

### Fast Data Services

##### Bug Fix

This version addressed the following bugs:

* bug 1
* bug 2

## Microfrontend Composer

### Configurator

#### Bug Fix

This version addressed the following bugs:

* bug 1
* bug 2

### Back-Kit Library

## Marketplace

### Marketplace Updates

## How to update your Console

For self-hosted installations, please head to the [self hosted upgrade guide](/infrastructure/self-hosted/installation-chart/100_how-to-upgrade.md) or contact your Mia-Platform referent and upgrade to _Console Helm Chart_ `vXXXX`.
