---
id: v13.5.1
title: Version 13.5.1 Release Notes
sidebar_label: v13.5.1
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

_December 19th, 2024_

:::info
Mia-Platform Console v13.5.1 is **now in Preview** and will be generally available on January 16th.

Console SaaS users can try out v13.5.1 latest improvements in Preview! Open a Service Request to ask for the creation of a sandbox Company in case you do not have access to any Company.

For self-hosted installations, please read the [following guidelines](#how-to-update-your-console).
:::

## Console

### Support for gRPC in Endpoints Configuration

The Console now supports configuring gRPC communication for newly created endpoints. You can mark an endpoint as gRPC to enable HTTP/2 communication and select the container port of the connected microservice to handle gRPC traffic.

For more details, refer to the related [documentation].

### Improvements

#### Service Accounts detail page

From now on you can access the detail of a Service Account from the related section at Company level. 

####

### Bug Fix

This version addressed the following bugs:

* fixed an issue where the use of underscores in the Environment ID prevented namespace creation;
* fixed an issue where malformed YAML in Infrastructure Resources resulted in unclear validation errors.

## Fast Data

### Fast Data Services

#### Projection Storer

The new version `v1.3.5` of the _Projection Storer_ is available!

#### Bug Fix

This version addressed a few bugs, here is a comprehensive list:

* after the introduction of SSL custom configuration in v1.3.2, it was assumed that SSL was disabled
when the ssl.enabled property was not specified. This prevents the service from connecting to database instances where SSL is active without configuring ssl.enabled to true. This release ensures that the SSL configuration is not enforced to false when not provided by the user, aligning the behavior of the service with that prior to v1.3.2.

For more information check out the service [changelog](/runtime_suite/projection-storer/changelog.md).

## Microfrontend Composer

### Back-Kit Library

The new version `v1.5.13` of the back-kit library is available!

Refer to back-kit [changelog](/microfrontend-composer/back-kit/changelog.md) for finer-grained details of new versions.

#### Improvements

##### Add `method` property to `bk-import-modal`

Add `method` property to `bk-import-modal` to choose which method to use for the `/import` HTTP request

#### Bug Fix

- Fix plus special character in url when used with bk-expanded-filters

## Marketplace

### New Marketplace Components

### Marketplace Updates

## How to update your Console

For self-hosted installations, please head to the [self hosted upgrade guide](/infrastructure/self-hosted/installation-chart/100_how-to-upgrade.md) or contact your Mia-Platform referent and upgrade to _Console Helm Chart_ `13.9.2-beta.0`.

