---
id: v13.6.2
title: Version 13.6.2 Release Notes
sidebar_label: v13.6.2
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

_March 06th, 2025_

:::info
Mia-Platform Console v13.6.2 is **now in Preview** and will be generally available on March 06th.

Console SaaS users can try out v13.6.2 latest improvements in Preview! Open a Service Request to ask for the creation of a sandbox Company in case you do not have access to any Company.

For self-hosted installations, please read the [following guidelines](#how-to-update-your-console).
:::

## Console

### Improvements

#### Custom label selector support for Projects import 

We added support for custom label selectors when performing a Kubernetes workload import into your Project from existing files.

To discover more about the import feature, head to the [miactl commands documentation](/cli/miactl/30_commands.md).

### Bug Fix

This version address the following bug:

* we fixed a graphical bug that was not correctly showing the options to perform "Restore Changes" and "Select for Compare" actions within the revision History modal.

## Fast Data

### Fast Data Services

####

##### Fixed

## Marketplace

### Marketplace Updates

#### Appointment Manager

The new version `2.5.0` of the Appointment Manager is available!

* Automatically truncate `startDate` and `endDate` of exceptions to the second

#### Care Kit

The new version `2.9.3` of Care Kit is available!

* `ck-patient-dashboard`: Fix word-break

#### Chat Service Frontend

A new version `1.0.1` of Chat Service Frontend is available!

#### Device Manager

The first version `1.0.0` of Device Manager is available!

#### Email Builder

The first version `1.0.0` of Email Builder is available!

#### FHIR Adapter

The new version `1.0.5` of FHIR Adapter is available!

* Upgrade base Docker image and project dependencies

#### FHIR Server

The new version `2.0.0` of FHIR Server is available!

The new version switches to the [HAPI FHIR](https://hapifhir.io/) official [Docker image](https://hub.docker.com/r/hapiproject/hapi).

#### Form Service Backend

The new version `2.1.1` of Form Service Backend is available!

* Form metadata can be edited after form is expired

#### Form Service Frontend

The new version `2.1.1` of Form Service Frontend is available!

* Form metadata can be edited after form is expired

#### Notification Manager

The new version `2.4.3` of Notification Manager is available!

* Fixed reminders scheduled in the past

#### O3 DICOM Service

The new version `0.1.6` of O3 DICOM Service is available!

* Upgrade base Docker image

#### PDF Service

The new version `2.0.1` of PDF Service is available!

* Fixed tests
* Update dependencies
* Update Node.js to v18

## How to update your Console

For self-hosted installations, please head to the [self hosted upgrade guide](/infrastructure/self-hosted/installation-chart/100_how-to-upgrade.md) or contact your Mia-Platform referent and upgrade to _Console Helm Chart_ `vx.x.x`.