---
id: v14.2.1
title: Version 14.2.1 Release Notes
sidebar_label: v14.2.1
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

_September 18th, 2025_

:::info

Mia-Platform Console v14.2.1 is **now in Preview** and will be generally available on September 18th.

Console SaaS users can try out v14.2.1 latest improvements in Preview! Open a Service Request to ask for the creation of a sandbox Company in case you do not have access to any Company.

For self-hosted installations, please read the [following guidelines](#how-to-update-your-console).
:::

## New Microservice experience as a Feature Preview

We’ve introduced a **new tabular view** for Microservices, designed to make navigation between resources more intuitive.  
From this view, you can quickly see any **related endpoints**, mark Microservices as **favorites**, add **multiple custom tags**, and then filter by them to better organize your workflows.

You can enable this new experience from the Feature Preview tab on the Settings section of your Project.   

## Export conversations with Mia-Assistant in PDF format

Conversations with **Mia-Assistant** can now be exported also in **PDF format**, in addition to the traditional `.txt`.  
You only need to click on the format you prefer from the download button available on the top of the Mia-Assistant chatbot.  
This makes it easier to choose the better option to archive, share, and review your assistant interactions whenever you need.  

## Console

### Improvements

#### Improved visibility of production environments status  

We’ve enhanced the way production environment information is displayed on the new Projects list: the **status of each production environment** is now directly visible from the **Projects table**.  
This gives you an immediate overview of any issues or confirmations about the health of your produciton environments when looking at your Company's projects.

## How to update your Console

For self-hosted installations, please head to the [self hosted upgrade guide](/infrastructure/self-hosted/installation-chart/100_how-to-upgrade.md) or contact your Mia-Platform referent and upgrade to _Console Helm Chart_ `vX.X.X-beta.0`.
