---
id: v14.0.2
title: Version 14.0.2 Release Notes
sidebar_label: v14.0.2
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

_June 26th, 2025_

:::info

Mia-Platform Console v14.0.2 is **now in Preview** and will be generally available on July 10th.

Console SaaS users can try out v14.0.2 latest improvements in Preview! Open a Service Request to ask for the creation of a sandbox Company in case you do not have access to any Company.

For self-hosted installations, please read the [following guidelines](#how-to-update-your-console).
:::

## Deploy History for Infrastructure Projects

## Console

### Improvements

#### Define Allow rules on Fine-Grained Access Control

Users can now define a list of rules that allow a specific action in Design by specificing an `allowedRuleSet`. By doing so, only changes explicitly permitted by these rules are allowed, while all others are denied.
Discover more about this improvement to the Fine-Grained Access Control functionality in the [dedicated documentation](/development_suite/api-console/api-design/fine-grained-access-control.md).

#### Define multiple actions for a single rule on Fine-Grained Access Control

Users can now configure rules for the Fine-Grained Access Control specifying multiple actions for a single rule.
You can discover more about this feature in the related [documentation page](/development_suite/api-console/api-design/fine-grained-access-control.md).

### Bug Fix

This version addresses the following bugs:

* Fixed issue with project creation when the blueprint uses different values for envPrefix and envId. Before this fix, the created project would have both values set to the same envId from the Company blueprint, while envPrefix was not being applied correctly.

## Data Catalog

### Export metadata

The new Export Metadata feature enables to easily extract your data assets metadata directly from the Data Catalog UI.  
The supported export format is `.csv`, ideal for tabular data and easy integration with tools like Excel, Google Spreadsheets and business intelligence software.
This feature is particularly useful to share metadata outside the Data Catalog, such as for offline analysis and for third-party stakeholders that may not have access to the Data Catalog instance itself.  
It is possible to perform export **from asset detail pages** or directly **from search results**.  

:::info
Export feature is supported starting by versions:
* Fabric BFF - v0.3.4
* Open Lineage - v0.3.8
* Job Runner - v0.2.2
* Data Catalog Frontend - v0.3.4
* Fabric Admin - v0.5.3

For more information, check the Data Catalog [compatibility matrix](/data_catalog/compatibility_matrix.md).
:::

Check the full list of capabilities of export feature in the specific [documentation page](/data_catalog/frontend/data_catalog_assets.mdx#export-metadata).

## Marketplace

### Marketplace Updates

#### Oauth Login Site 8.1.3

Oauth Login Site is now available as a Marketplace plugin. Check the [documentation](/runtime_suite/oauth-login-site/10_overview.md) for more details.

##### Fixed

#### FHIR Adapter 1.2.0

## How to update your Console

For self-hosted installations, please head to the [self hosted upgrade guide](/infrastructure/self-hosted/installation-chart/100_how-to-upgrade.md) or contact your Mia-Platform referent and upgrade to _Console Helm Chart_ `vX.X.X`.
