---
id: v14.1.0
title: Version 14.1.0 Release Notes
sidebar_label: v14.1.0
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

_July 24th, 2025_

:::info

Mia-Platform Console v14.1.0 is **now in Preview** and will be generally available on September 4th.

Console SaaS users can try out v14.1.0 latest improvements in Preview! Open a Service Request to ask for the creation of a sandbox Company in case you do not have access to any Company.

For self-hosted installations, please read the [following guidelines](#how-to-update-your-console).
:::

## Mia-Assistant gets smarter with real-time Console data via MCP Server

Mia-Assistant can now provide more accurate and contextual answers by connecting directly to your Console project configurations through the Model Context Protocol (MCP) Server.
This enhancement allows the Assistant to retrieve up-to-date information from your configurations, improving the precision and relevance of its responses.

Thanks to this integration, Mia-Assistant becomes an even more powerful support tool, giving you immediate insights based on your actual project state!

To discover more, visit [Mia-Assistant documentation page](/).

## Console

### Environment Based Configuration Management as Closed Preview

The Environment Based Configuration Management feature, introduced in Beta with **v14.0.0**, will now be available as **Closed Preview** only.
This will allow us to focus on gathering feedback and improving the final user experience before a wider rollout. As a result, automatic migration of Enhanced projects is temporarily disabled, and existing migrated projects will be reverted.

In the meantime, if you are interested in trying out this beta feature, you can reach out to your Mia-Platform referent.

### Improvements

#### 

## Fast Data

### 

## Microfrontend Composer

### 

## Marketplace

### Marketplace Updates

#### Integration Connector Agent 0.4.0

The Integration Connector Agent received new updates to enable:

- aggregating information from Cloud Vendors (specifically GCP, AWS and Azure)
- receiving events from GitHub webhooks
- build custom processors with Golang code, thanks to the new `rpc-plugin` processors and the [Integration Connector Agent Processor Template](https://github.com/mia-platform-marketplace/integration-connector-agent-processor)

## How to update your Console

For self-hosted installations, please head to the [self hosted upgrade guide](/infrastructure/self-hosted/installation-chart/100_how-to-upgrade.md) or contact your Mia-Platform referent and upgrade to _Console Helm Chart_ `vX.X.X-beta.0`.
