docs/development_suite/set-up-infrastructure/enhanced-project-workflow.md, before:

---
id: enhanced-project-workflow
title: Enhanced Project Workflow
sidebar_label: Enhanced Project Workflow
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs"
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem"

:::caution
This is a **BETA** feature and, as such, is currently under active development. Pay attention using it.
:::

The **Enhanced Project Workflow** feature aims to provide a better developer experience when working with the Console, as well as pave the way for the adoption of previously unavailable opportunities, such as the [GitOps deployment strategy](/development_suite/deploy/gitops-based/index.md).

## Changes to the Console workflow

The following sections will highlight the changes made to the established Console workflow, regarding in particular the new management of the Project logical state, and the new deployment workflow.

### New configuration management strategy

The most relevant change in the Console behavior is that the Project logical state will not be saved on your Git repository anymore. This results in significant **performance improvement** during the main Console workflows (especially in the [Design Area](/development_suite/api-console/api-design/overview.md)), since contacting the Git provider implied a considerable overhead that has now been completely removed.

This change also means that the Console will not rely on the typical Git-based instruments anymore and will instead adopt a **new configuration management system**, while still maintaining consistency with the established workflows; to emphasize this, the following features have been renamed:
- `branches` and `tags` become **`revisions`** and **`versions`**
- the `commit history` becomes **`version history`**

To keep track of the Project evolution, user can create `versions` (similar to Git tags) that act as fixed snapshots of the configuration in a particular moment.

Developers can manage *revisions* and *versions* from the dedicated sections inside the Overview area. Revisions can be accessed and deleted from the Revisions management page:

![Revisions management page](img/revisions-overview.png)

Versions with their description and release note can be viewed and deleted through the versions management page:

:::info
Versions can only be deleted by Project Administrators.
:::

![Versions management page](img/versions-overview.png)

### New deployment workflow

Another significant change is the way Console configurations are saved and deployed: Kubernetes **configurations will be generated and committed** to the Git repository only **during the deployment process**.

:::caution
When deploying your configurations to the cluster, keep in mind that only the changes pushed to the repository default branch will be considered.

If you want configuration to be committed on a different branch you can change the `repository.configurationBranch` property in your Project configuration (currently available only from CMS).
:::

When Kubernetes configurations are generated, they get tailored for the specific environment you are deploying to. For this reason, [Public Variables](/development_suite/api-console/api-design/public_variables.md) interpolation is now performed during configuration generation and, as such, can be skipped during the deployment pipeline. Therefore, the Public Variables feature is now available even to Projects that are not using [`mlp`](/runtime_suite_tools/mlp/10_overview.md) or have a pipeline that does not support running custom code to execute variable interpolation.

The new deployment workflow also unlocks the possibility to adopt a **pull-based deployment strategy**, in which a GitOps tool can be set up to automatically align the cluster state to the latest changes pushed to the Git repository. To find out more about pull-based deployment and its advantages, visit the [GitOps deployment strategy documentation page](/development_suite/deploy/gitops-based/index.md).

### Kubernetes configuration review and export

This workflow enables users to review and export generated configurations before these are even deployed to the cluster.  
This feature is available from the [Deploy Page](/development_suite/deploy/overview.md#export-and-review-configuration-files) after selecting the revision to deploy.

## Roadmap and future improvements

:::note
The following features are still in development and will be available in future releases.
:::

### Improvements to Project Settings

As of today, some **Project customizations** can be performed only through the backoffice:

- The repository default branch can be changed by updating the `repository.configurationBranch` property.
- The setting of environment-specific deployment strategies can be configured by patching the `environments[_].deploy.strategy` property of the Project. At Project level (inherited by all Project environments), it can already be configured in the Project Settings page.

In the future, these properties will be managed in the Console, inside the [Project Settings](/console/project-configuration/project-settings.md) page.

### Compare Kubernetes configurations with those running in the cluster

With this feature Users will be able to not only review the configurations but also compare the differences with what is currently running in the cluster and understand the impacts the deploy will have before performing it.

### Migration support with automatic tools

With the first release of this new Workflow, existing Projects will require a migration operation to be performed. With this improvement we ought to provide further assistance in the migration process to make it as easy and smooth as possible.

## Activating the feature

The Enhanced Project Workflow can be activated by the user when [creating a new Project](/console/project-configuration/create-a-project.mdx#creation-process). There are different possible scenarios in the Project creation process:
- The Company requires that all new Projects are created with the Enhanced Workflow. This means that during the Project creation process the Enhanced Workflow will be the only available workflow option.
- The Company lets users choose if they want to adopt the Enhanced Workflow on the new Project or keep using the standard one.
- The Company does not support the creation of Projects with the Enhanced Workflow: new Projects will keep using the standard one.

:::info
If you want to ensure that all Projects in your Company, both old and new ones, adopt the Enhanced Workflow, you can open a service request and ask for the support of a Mia-Platform referent in order to enable the `ENABLE_CONF_GENERATION_ON_DEPLOY` feature toggle at Company level. This feature toggle activates the new versioning system and the generation of Kubernetes configurations at the time of deployment.

Instead, to allow users to decide if they want to create a new Project with the Enhanced Workflow or not, you can open a service request and ask for the support of a Mia-Platform referent in order to enable the `ENABLE_CREATE_PROJECT_WITH_SAVE_CONFIG_ON_DEPLOY` feature toggle at Company level. If this feature toggle is disabled at Company level, it means that the creation of Projects using the Enhanced Workflow is not supported by that Company.
:::

In the end of the Project creation process, if the Enhanced Workflow option has been selected, the result is the activation of the `ENABLE_CONF_GENERATION_ON_DEPLOY` feature toggle at Project level.

:::info
If you want to activate the Enhanced Workflow on an already existing Project, follow the guide in the next section instead.
:::

## Migrating your projects

The migration process for an existing Project can be performed in the [Enhanced Workflow card](/console/project-configuration/project-settings.md#enhanced-workflow) in the Advanced section of the Project Settings page. Confirming the action in the dedicated modal will result in the activation of the `ENABLE_CONF_GENERATION_ON_DEPLOY` feature toggle for the Project.

In order for the migration to succeed, though, there are some manual adjustments that need to be performed, which can be summarized with the following steps:

 - Git repository structure clean-up
 - Feature activation
 - Default revision setup and adjustment of a few Project Settings

### Git Repository adjustments

With the new Workflow we changed the way Console organizes the Git repository.  
Previously Console supported two different folder structures based on whether the Project used [`kustomize`](/console/project-configuration/kustomize-your-configurations/migrate-to-kustomize.md) or not.  
With the new workflow Console uses a single common structure for both the cases. This structure contains the following directories:

- `environments`: this one is automatically generated by the Console and contains one directory for each environment. Here are stored all the configurations files generated at each deploy.
- `configuration`: contains your global customization files to be applied to all environments. If the Project uses [`kustomize`](/console/project-configuration/kustomize-your-configurations/manage-a-kustomize-project.md) there will be also a `kustomization.yaml` manifest file.
- `overlays`: containing one directory for each environment. Here all your environment-specific patch files are stored, as well as a `kustomization.yaml` manifest if you are using [`Kustomize`](/console/project-configuration/kustomize-your-configurations/manage-a-kustomize-project.md).

The final repository structure should be similar to the following: 

```
├── overlays
│ ├── dev
│ │ └─── <dev custom file>
│ ├── production
│ │ └─── <prod custom file>
│ ├── other_env_id
│ │ └─── <env_id custom file>
│ └── ....
│
├── configuration
│ └─── <global custom files>
│
├── environments
│ ├── dev
│ │ └── <k8s config files>
│ ├── production
│ │ └── <k8s config files>
│ ├── other_env_id
│ │ └── <k8s config files>
│ └ .....
```

:::info
All the contents of the `environments` directory are generated from scratch each time, any additional file that is not managed by the Console will be overwritten!
:::

<br />
The migration process for the git repository differs depending on whether the project is using kustomize or not.  
Follow the right section for your Project to correctly update the git repository:

<Tabs
  defaultValue="plain"
  groupId="git-repo-migration"
  values={[
      { label: 'Plain', value: 'plain', },
      { label: 'Kustomize', value: 'kustomize', },
  ]}
>
<TabItem value="kustomize">

Edit `overlays/:environmentId/kustomization.yml` file and replace the path `../../configuration` with `../../environments/:environmentId`.  
When generating the `environments/:env/kustomization.yml`, the Console will automatically import the `configuration/kustomization.yml` if present.

Your `kustomization.yml` file should look like this:

```yaml
apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Kustomization
resources:
- ../../environments/dev
```

Within the `configuration` folder you have to delete all the k8s configuration files previously handled by the Console. Leaving only the `kustomization.yml` and your custom files (if any).


</TabItem>
<TabItem value="plain">

Create a folder named `overlay` and one subfolder for each environment of the Project. These subfolders should be named using the environment Id.
To do this, you can refer to the example structure just above.

Move every k8s configuration file from the `configuration/:envId` to the relative directory just created inside the `overlays` folder.
The `configuration` folder should then contain only global customization files (if any).

</TabItem>
</Tabs>


#### Other common cleanup for git repository

- If you have a pipeline file (e.g. `gitlab-ci.yml`) it may contain deployment scripts that may work based on the previous directory structure. For this reason, custom pipelines have to be updated according to the new directory structure; if your Project is using a pipeline provided by Mia-Platform templates, a new template can be used: please ask your Mia-Platform referent to know which one.

- All the Console configuration state files and directories that were previously saved on Git can now be safely removed.  
Here is a list of the files and directories that can be  deleted:
  - `api-console-config.json`
  - `fastdata-config.json`
  - `mia-craft-config.json`
  - `rbacManagerConfig.json`
  - `backofficeConfigurations.json`
  - `config-maps`
  - `config-extension`
  - `variables`
  - `overlays/:env/variables.env`

### Default revision configuration

After activating the Feature, ensure to configure the new **default revision** field from the [Project Settings](/console/project-configuration/project-settings.md) selecting one of the already existing branches (namely Revisions).

:::info
If no default revision is specified, the Console will use `main` as the default revision.
This revision will be an empty configuration if no other `main` branch was previously created on the Project.
:::

## Pull-based deployment strategy

If you want the Project to use a [**pull-based deployment strategy**](/development_suite/deploy/gitops-based/index.md#advantages-of-pull-based-deployment), you can select it in the [Deployment options card](/console/project-configuration/project-settings.md#deployment-options) in the Workload & Runtime section of the Project Settings page.

Commit message:

Project creation with new workflow activated at Instance Level

docs/development_suite/set-up-infrastructure/enhanced-project-workflow.md, after:

---
id: enhanced-project-workflow
title: Enhanced Project Workflow
sidebar_label: Enhanced Project Workflow
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs"
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem"

:::caution
This is a **BETA** feature and, as such, is currently under active development. Pay attention using it.
:::

The **Enhanced Project Workflow** feature aims to provide a better developer experience when working with the Console, as well as pave the way for the adoption of previously unavailable opportunities, such as the [GitOps deployment strategy](/development_suite/deploy/gitops-based/index.md).

## Changes to the Console workflow

The following sections will highlight the changes made to the established Console workflow, regarding in particular the new management of the Project logical state, and the new deployment workflow.

### New configuration management strategy

The most relevant change in the Console behavior is that the Project logical state will not be saved on your Git repository anymore. This results in significant **performance improvement** during the main Console workflows (especially in the [Design Area](/development_suite/api-console/api-design/overview.md)), since contacting the Git provider implied a considerable overhead that has now been completely removed.

This change also means that the Console will not rely on the typical Git-based instruments anymore and will instead adopt a **new configuration management system**, while still maintaining consistency with the established workflows; to emphasize this, the following features have been renamed:
- `branches` and `tags` become **`revisions`** and **`versions`**
- the `commit history` becomes **`version history`**

To keep track of the Project evolution, user can create `versions` (similar to Git tags) that act as fixed snapshots of the configuration in a particular moment.

Developers can manage *revisions* and *versions* from the dedicated sections inside the Overview area. Revisions can be accessed and deleted from the Revisions management page:

![Revisions management page](img/revisions-overview.png)

Versions with their description and release note can be viewed and deleted through the versions management page:

:::info
Versions can only be deleted by Project Administrators.
:::

![Versions management page](img/versions-overview.png)

### New deployment workflow

Another significant change is the way Console configurations are saved and deployed: Kubernetes **configurations will be generated and committed** to the Git repository only **during the deployment process**.

:::caution
When deploying your configurations to the cluster, keep in mind that only the changes pushed to the repository default branch will be considered.

If you want configuration to be committed on a different branch you can change the `repository.configurationBranch` property in your Project configuration (currently available only from CMS).
:::

When Kubernetes configurations are generated, they get tailored for the specific environment you are deploying to. For this reason, [Public Variables](/development_suite/api-console/api-design/public_variables.md) interpolation is now performed during configuration generation and, as such, can be skipped during the deployment pipeline. Therefore, the Public Variables feature is now available even to Projects that are not using [`mlp`](/runtime_suite_tools/mlp/10_overview.md) or have a pipeline that does not support running custom code to execute variable interpolation.

The new deployment workflow also unlocks the possibility to adopt a **pull-based deployment strategy**, in which a GitOps tool can be set up to automatically align the cluster state to the latest changes pushed to the Git repository. To find out more about pull-based deployment and its advantages, visit the [GitOps deployment strategy documentation page](/development_suite/deploy/gitops-based/index.md).

### Kubernetes configuration review and export

This workflow enables users to review and export generated configurations before these are even deployed to the cluster.  
This feature is available from the [Deploy Page](/development_suite/deploy/overview.md#export-and-review-configuration-files) after selecting the revision to deploy.

## Roadmap and future improvements

:::note
The following features are still in development and will be available in future releases.
:::

### Improvements to Project Settings

As of today, some **Project customizations** can be performed only through the backoffice:

- The repository default branch can be changed by updating the `repository.configurationBranch` property.
- The setting of environment-specific deployment strategies can be configured by patching the `environments[_].deploy.strategy` property of the Project. At Project level (inherited by all Project environments), it can already be configured in the Project Settings page.

In the future, these properties will be managed in the Console, inside the [Project Settings](/console/project-configuration/project-settings.md) page.

### Compare Kubernetes configurations with those running in the cluster

With this feature Users will be able to not only review the configurations but also compare the differences with what is currently running in the cluster and understand the impacts the deploy will have before performing it.

### Migration support with automatic tools

With the first release of this new Workflow, existing Projects will require a migration operation to be performed. With this improvement we ought to provide further assistance in the migration process to make it as easy and smooth as possible.

## Activating the feature on new Projects

The Enhanced Project Workflow can be activated by the user on new Projects enabling the relative switch in the Project workflow card following the [project creation process](/console/project-configuration/create-a-project.mdx#creation-process).

:::info
If you want to ensure that all Projects in your Company adopt the Enhanced Workflow, you can open a service request and ask for the support of a Mia-Platform referent in order to enable the `ENABLE_CONF_GENERATION_ON_DEPLOY` feature toggle at Company level. The activation of this feature on the Company level disallows also to create new project without the Enhanced Workflow.

In the end of the Project creation process, if the Enhanced Workflow option has been selected, the result is the activation of the `ENABLE_CONF_GENERATION_ON_DEPLOY` feature toggle at Project level.

:::info
If you want to activate the Enhanced Workflow on an already existing Project, follow the guide in the next section instead.
:::

## Migrating your Projects

The migration process for an existing Project can be performed in the [Enhanced Workflow card](/console/project-configuration/project-settings.md#enhanced-workflow) in the Advanced section of the Project Settings page. Confirming the action in the dedicated modal will result in the activation of the `ENABLE_CONF_GENERATION_ON_DEPLOY` feature toggle for the Project.

In order for the migration to succeed, though, there are some manual adjustments that need to be performed, which can be summarized with the following steps:

 - Git repository structure clean-up
 - Feature activation
 - Default revision setup and adjustment of a few Project Settings

### Git Repository adjustments

With the new Workflow we changed the way Console organizes the Git repository.  
Previously Console supported two different folder structures based on whether the Project used [`kustomize`](/console/project-configuration/kustomize-your-configurations/migrate-to-kustomize.md) or not.  
With the new workflow Console uses a single common structure for both the cases. This structure contains the following directories:

- `environments`: this one is automatically generated by the Console and contains one directory for each environment. Here are stored all the configurations files generated at each deploy.
- `configuration`: contains your global customization files to be applied to all environments. If the Project uses [`kustomize`](/console/project-configuration/kustomize-your-configurations/manage-a-kustomize-project.md) there will be also a `kustomization.yaml` manifest file.
- `overlays`: containing one directory for each environment. Here all your environment-specific patch files are stored, as well as a `kustomization.yaml` manifest if you are using [`Kustomize`](/console/project-configuration/kustomize-your-configurations/manage-a-kustomize-project.md).

The final repository structure should be similar to the following: 

```
├── overlays
│ ├── dev
│ │ └─── <dev custom file>
│ ├── production
│ │ └─── <prod custom file>
│ ├── other_env_id
│ │ └─── <env_id custom file>
│ └── ....
│
├── configuration
│ └─── <global custom files>
│
├── environments
│ ├── dev
│ │ └── <k8s config files>
│ ├── production
│ │ └── <k8s config files>
│ ├── other_env_id
│ │ └── <k8s config files>
│ └ .....
```

:::info
All the contents of the `environments` directory are generated from scratch each time, any additional file that is not managed by the Console will be overwritten!
:::

<br />
The migration process for the git repository differs depending on whether the project is using kustomize or not.  
Follow the right section for your Project to correctly update the git repository:

<Tabs
  defaultValue="plain"
  groupId="git-repo-migration"
  values={[
      { label: 'Plain', value: 'plain', },
      { label: 'Kustomize', value: 'kustomize', },
  ]}
>
<TabItem value="kustomize">

Edit `overlays/:environmentId/kustomization.yml` file and replace the path `../../configuration` with `../../environments/:environmentId`.  
When generating the `environments/:env/kustomization.yml`, the Console will automatically import the `configuration/kustomization.yml` if present.

Your `kustomization.yml` file should look like this:

```yaml
apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Kustomization
resources:
- ../../environments/dev
```

Within the `configuration` folder you have to delete all the k8s configuration files previously handled by the Console. Leaving only the `kustomization.yml` and your custom files (if any).


</TabItem>
<TabItem value="plain">

Create a folder named `overlay` and one subfolder for each environment of the Project. These subfolders should be named using the environment Id.
To do this, you can refer to the example structure just above.

Move every k8s configuration file from the `configuration/:envId` to the relative directory just created inside the `overlays` folder.
The `configuration` folder should then contain only global customization files (if any).

</TabItem>
</Tabs>


#### Other common cleanup for git repository

- If you have a pipeline file (e.g. `gitlab-ci.yml`) it may contain deployment scripts that may work based on the previous directory structure. For this reason, custom pipelines have to be updated according to the new directory structure; if your Project is using a pipeline provided by Mia-Platform templates, a new template can be used: please ask your Mia-Platform referent to know which one.

- All the Console configuration state files and directories that were previously saved on Git can now be safely removed.  
Here is a list of the files and directories that can be  deleted:
  - `api-console-config.json`
  - `fastdata-config.json`
  - `mia-craft-config.json`
  - `rbacManagerConfig.json`
  - `backofficeConfigurations.json`
  - `config-maps`
  - `config-extension`
  - `variables`
  - `overlays/:env/variables.env`

### Default revision configuration

After activating the Feature, ensure to configure the new **default revision** field from the [Project Settings](/console/project-configuration/project-settings.md) selecting one of the already existing branches (namely Revisions).

:::info
If no default revision is specified, the Console will use `main` as the default revision.
This revision will be an empty configuration if no other `main` branch was previously created on the Project.
:::

## Pull-based deployment strategy

If you want the Project to use a [**pull-based deployment strategy**](/development_suite/deploy/gitops-based/index.md#advantages-of-pull-based-deployment), you can select it in the [Deployment options card](/console/project-configuration/project-settings.md#deployment-options) in the Workload & Runtime section of the Project Settings page.
