---
id: v13.0.4
title: Version 13.0.4 Release Notes
sidebar_label: v13.0.4
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

_July 18th, 2024_

## Console

### Mia-Assistant available on Self-Hosted installations

Mia-Assistant, the AI chatbot of Mia-Platform, is now available also on Self-Hosted installations!  
For more information about how to configure it, head to the [installation chart documentation](/infrastructure/self-hosted/installation-chart/helm-values/75_assistant.md).

### Manage iFrame extensions via miactl

`miactl` v0.13.0 is out now and it is featuring new commands to manage your iFrame Company extensions directly from command line!  
To discover more about such new commands, head to the related [documentation page](/cli/miactl/30_commands.md#extensions).

### Bug Fix

This version addressed the following bugs:

* fixed a bug that caused a malfunction of the compare changes feature at deploy that caused the feature to unexpectedly fail when using GitLab as a CI/CD provider on the project;
* fixed a bug that caused a malfunction when creating Dashboard Categories from a project Blueprint;
* fixed a navigation bug that caused the user to enter an inconsistent state if the permission to access to a specific project was missing;
* fixed a bug that wrongly allowed users to create a container with the same name of the microservice to which it was added.

## Fast Data

### Fast Data Configurator

#### Bug Fix

This version addressed the following bug:

* fixed a bug causing both the old and the new field to be kept when renaming a field of a nested object of a Single View.

## Microfrontend Composer

### Configurator

#### Bug Fix

This version addressed the following bugs:

* fixed a bug that caused a malfunction of the Composer when opening the CRUD client component properties with no CRUD endpoints exposed.

### Back-Kit Library

#### Bug Fix

This version addresses the following bugs:

* fixed a bug for which bk-table doesn't fit parent container after resizing the browser window;
* fixed an editor tooltip that falls out of view in form modals;
* fixed an error in forms with array of dates fields.

## Marketplace

### Marketplace Updates

#### CRUD Service

The new version `7.0.4` of the CRUD Service is available!

##### Bug Fix

* fixed bug that made CRUD validating items of a collection with the wrong configuration, due to compilers collision with collections having the same prefix.

#### Form Service Frontend

The new version `2.0.5` of the Form Service Frontend is available!

##### Bug Fix

* Fixed bug on expired form behavior

#### Messaging Service

The new version `1.7.0` of the Messaging Service is available!

##### New features

* Added support for localization of interpolated data in message templates

#### Notification Manager Service

The new version `2.3.0` of the Notification Manager Service is available!

##### New features

* Added endpoints to manage message templates with `bk-crud-client` on Backoffice
* Added endpoints to manage notification settings with `bk-crud-client` on Backoffice
* Added support for localization of interpolated data in message templates
* Added support for integration with external services to retrieve user properties

##### Bug Fix

* Fixed a bug causing errors when sending attachments via email using both the Messaging and Event API

## How to update your Console

For self-hosted installations, please head to the [self hosted upgrade guide](/infrastructure/self-hosted/installation-chart/100_how-to-upgrade.md) or contact your Mia-Platform referent and upgrade to _Console Helm Chart_ `v13.5.1`.
