docs/marketplace/templates/mia_templates.md, before:

---
id: mia_templates
title: Templates
sidebar_label: Mia-Platform Templates
---
A **Template** is a base repository from which you can start to create a new Microservice.  
Usually they depend on specific [Mia Service libraries](/libraries/mia-service-libraries.md).

Currently available templates are:

| **Template** | **Technologies** |
| ------|------------|
|[Node.js template](https://github.com/mia-platform-marketplace/Node.js-Custom-Plugin-Template/)| Node.js, JavaScript |
|[Spring Boot template](https://github.com/mia-platform-marketplace/SpringBoot-Custom-Plugin-Template)| Spring Boot, Java |
|[React template](https://github.com/mia-platform-marketplace/React-App-Template)| React, JavaScript |
|[Angular template](https://github.com/mia-platform-marketplace/Angular-App-Template)| Angular, TypeScript |
|[Go template](https://github.com/mia-platform-marketplace/Go-Template)| Go |
|[.NET template](https://github.com/mia-platform-marketplace/DotNet-Microservice-Template)| .NET, C# |
|[TypeScript LC-39 template](https://github.com/mia-platform-marketplace/Typescript-LC39-Template)|Node.js, [LC-39](https://github.com/mia-platform/lc39), TypeScript  |
|[Ktor template](https://github.com/mia-platform-marketplace/Ktor-Template)| Ktor, Kotlin |
|[Ktor multi module template](https://github.com/mia-platform-marketplace/Ktor-Multi-Module-Template)| Ktor, Kotlin |.

More templates are in development, but if you want, you can [build a template](/marketplace/templates/template_create.md) by yourself.

:::tip

Would you like your template to appear here? Send an email with all the details to [info@mia-platform.eu](mailto:info@mia-platform.eu)

Commit message:

improve template and examples explanation

docs/marketplace/templates/mia_templates.md, after:

---
id: mia_templates
title: Templates
sidebar_label: Mia-Platform Templates
---
A **Template** is a base repository from which you can start to create a new Microservice.  

Usually they depend on specific [Mia Service libraries](/libraries/mia-service-libraries.md).

Mia-Platforms currently supports the following examples:

| **Template**                                                                                          | **Technologies**                                                   |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| [Node.js template](https://github.com/mia-platform-marketplace/Node.js-Custom-Plugin-Template/)       | Node.js, JavaScript                                                |
| [Spring Boot template](https://github.com/mia-platform-marketplace/SpringBoot-Custom-Plugin-Template) | Spring Boot, Java                                                  |
| [React template](https://github.com/mia-platform-marketplace/React-App-Template)                      | React, JavaScript                                                  |
| [Angular template](https://github.com/mia-platform-marketplace/Angular-App-Template)                  | Angular, TypeScript                                                |
| [Go template](https://github.com/mia-platform-marketplace/Go-Template)                                | Go                                                                 |
| [.NET template](https://github.com/mia-platform-marketplace/DotNet-Microservice-Template)             | .NET, C#                                                           |
| [TypeScript LC-39 template](https://github.com/mia-platform-marketplace/Typescript-LC39-Template)     | Node.js, [LC-39](https://github.com/mia-platform/lc39), TypeScript |
| [Ktor template](https://github.com/mia-platform-marketplace/Ktor-Template)                            | Ktor, Kotlin                                                       |
| [Ktor multi module template](https://github.com/mia-platform-marketplace/Ktor-Multi-Module-Template)  | Ktor, Kotlin                                                       | . |

You can also [build a template](/marketplace/templates/template_create.md) by yourself.

Head to the [Contributing Overview](../contributing_overview) for further information on how to create and upload it to the Marketplace.
