---
id: how-to-upgrade
title: How to Upgrade
sidebar_label: How To Upgrade
---

<!--
WARNING: this file was automatically generated by Mia-Platform Doc Aggregator.
DO NOT MODIFY IT BY HAND.
Instead, modify the source file and run the aggregator to regenerate this file.
-->

In order to upgrade Mia-Platform Console, all you need to do is to update the `mia-console` Chart version dependency in your `Chart.yaml` file.

```yaml title="Chart.yaml" {9} showLineNumbers
apiVersion: v2
name: console
version: "0.0.0"
kubeVersion: ">= 1.20.0"
description: Self Hosted Console Installation Chart
type: application
dependencies:
  - name: mia-console
    version: "X.Y.Z"
    repository: "https://nexus.mia-platform.eu/repository/helm-internal/"
```

When upgrading also make sure to check if any new configuration option is available or if something has been removed.

:::info
The Chart version follows [semver](https://semver.org/) policy so any breaking change with the Chart will always be followed by a Major release. Minor releases may include new configuration options while as a general rule of thumb, patches never holds new configuration options but only internal updates and fixes.
:::

## Console v13 - version upgrades

### Upgrade from v13.7.0 to v13.7.1

With Console v13.7.1, the Mia-Assistant can be configured to use any of the supported LLM/Embedding models.

You can choose between:

- azure
- openai
- vertex

Follow the [Assistant documentation](./helm-values/75_assistant.md#llm-and-embeddings-model-configuration) to learn more about how to configure it.

### Upgrade from v13.6.2 to v13.7.0

With Console v13.7.0, the new Audit Logs feature is available. A new **required value** has been added to the configuration that lets you configure the audit storage.

See the [Audit Section](./helm-values/20_general-settings.md#audit-logs-configuration) in the General settings page to find out how to configure it.

:::tip
As a best practice it is advised to store Audit logs in a different Database than application data. The `configurations.audit.mongodbUrl` allows you to configure a different connection string for this purpose.
:::

### Upgrade from v13.5.3 to v13.6.0

With v13.6.0 a new microservice has been added to the Console application, you can configure it using the `catalogService` value to better suite your scaling needs

:::tip
Refer to the [Service Specific configuration](./helm-values/30_service-specific-configurations.md) documentation page for further details on available values.
:::

### Upgrade from last Console v12 to v13.0.0

With v13 a new microservice has been added to the Console application, you can configure it using the `extensibilityManagerService` value to better suite your scaling needs

:::tip
Refer to the [Service Specific configuration](./helm-values/30_service-specific-configurations.md) documentation page for further details on available values.
:::
