---
id: v12.3.1
title: Version 12.3.1 Release Notes
sidebar_label: v12.3.1
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

_April 11th, 2024_

## Console

### Improvements

#### Last Triggered Event in Webhook Section

A new column has been added to the webhooks table within the Console's Webhook section, enabling the display of the date, status, and event type of the most recent triggering of the specifically configured webhook.

#### Collapse and expand nodes and events in Flow Manager Configurator

A new button has been added to the [Flow Manager Configurator](/docs/12.x.x/development_suite/api-console/api-design/flow-manager-configurator/overview), enabling the programmatic expand an collapse of nodes and events labels for a better navigability of flows.

### Bug Fix

This version addressed the following bug:

* it has been fixed a bug that wrongly inserted a variable that needed interpolation when using the swagger-aggregator with the Enhanced Project Workflow.

## Fast Data

### Fast Data Configurator

#### Bug Fix

This version addressed the following bug:

* Single View indexes marked as "default sorting" are now **not** deletable

## Microfrontend Composer

### Back-Kit Library

The new version `v1.5.0` of the back-kit library is available!

Refer to back-kit [changelog](/docs/12.x.x/microfrontend-composer/back-kit/changelog) for finer-grained details of new versions.

#### Improvements

##### Search bar in layout

It is now possible to search between menu items in `bk-layout` component. Moreover, the collapse button has a new style.

##### Estimate count support

`bk-crud-client` has the new property `useEstimateCount` that enables to do every `/count` call with the `_useEstimateCount` query parameter set to true. Moreover, `bk-pagination` has the new property `usePagesCount` to hide the pages count when `false`.

#### Bug Fix

This version addressed a few bugs, here is a comprehensive list:

* improved behavior of `keepPageCount` in `bk-crud-client`
* fixed files preview in `bk-file-client`

## Marketplace

### Marketplace Updates

#### Authentication Service

The new version `v3.9.0` of the Authentication Service is available!

##### Improvements

Added a new endpoint to the authentication service that exposes the stored OIDC provider `idToken`. 
The endpoint can be exposed **only for the provider `microsoft`** through a dedicated setting. 
For more information consult the [service documentation](/docs/12.x.x/runtime_suite/authentication-service/usage#get-provider-idtoken).

#### Swagger Aggregator

The new version `3.5.2` of the Swagger Aggregator is available!

##### Improvements

The documentation aggregation and conversion process has been optimized leading to improved performances at runtime and
lower API response time.

## How to update your Console

For self-hosted installations, please head to the [self hosted upgrade guide](/docs/12.x.x/infrastructure/self-hosted/installation-chart/how-to-upgrade#v12---version-upgrades) or contact your Mia-Platform referent and upgrade to _Console Helm Chart_ `v13.0.1`.
