---
id: changelog
title: CHANGELOG
sidebar_label: CHANGELOG
---

<!--
WARNING: this file was automatically generated by Mia-Platform Doc Aggregator.
DO NOT MODIFY IT BY HAND.
Instead, modify the source file and run the aggregator to regenerate this file.
-->

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.

The format is based on [Keep a Changelog](http://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/)
and this project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](http://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

## [2.0.1] 2023-07-11

### Changed
- Export Service now supports JSON Lines inputs that don't have a trailing empty line. Before this version, the Export Service ignored the last line of JSON Lines inputs, assuming that it would be an empty line.

## 2.0.0

### Changed

- Service has been totally rewritten in NodeJS
- All export formats are now generated in streaming, which makes very large exports possible
- The columns field is no longer required in the /export request body. If a column is not present in the input data source the result will include it as an empty string. If not specified, all columns present in the input source will be exported according to the default JavaScript property order (numbers in ascending order followed by strings in insertion order). If specified, csv, html and xlsx exports will also include a header row specifying the exported column names.
- The contentType field is no longer accepted in the /export request body. The response Content-Type header value is now inferred from the export type field.

## 1.1.1

### Updated

- upgrade dependencies

## 1.1.0

### Changed

- Timeout of internal client incremented from 10 seconds to 60 seconds

## v1.0.6 - 09-06-2022

### Updated

- Base docker image
- All pom dependencies

## v1.0.5 - 20-12-2021

- Upgraded log4j to patch 2.17.0

## v1.0.4 - 15-12-2021

- fix libraries fontconfig libfreetype6  import for excel export

## v1.0.3 - 15-12-2021

### Fixed

- Updated log4j to 2.16 version to prevent vulnerability issues

## v1.0.2

### Fixed

- Updated log4j to 2.15 version to prevent vulnerability issues

#### Added

- Created GracefulShutdown class to allow zero-downtime 

## v1.0.1

Fix:
- Async calls towards external services had been managed synchronously and moved in the controller

Added:
- Integration Tests for HTTP Interface
- HTTP proxy headers manage both platform and client/custom headers passed as params in the request body
- Error handling has been improved in order to wrap JsonMappingException messages and validation errors
- Url parsing method exceptions are managed properly for most of corner cases
- Refactoring to handle export settings via payload parameter
- Better handling for param "columns" which must be:
    - not required
    - not empty whether present
- Conversion method for Boolean values in different formats passed as configuration in the payload. Format supported are :
    - String "true"/"false"
    - Boolean true/false
    - Int 1/0
    - String "customTrueValue"/"customFalseValue"
- Unit Tests for all the above points
- Added tests to verify that Content-Disposition is missing from the Response Headers
    
Misc:
- Overall coverage improvement
- Swagger UI 
- Added Stress Tests with artillery
