docs/getting-started/tutorials/index.md, before:

---
id: tutorials
title: Tutorials
sidebar_label: Tutorials
---

# Introduction to the Tutorials

Welcome to the Tutorials page! This page contains a series of tutorials guides designed to help you better understand specific topics.

## Tutorials and Guides by Category

### **Console**
- **Project Usage Handbook**: Navigating and making the most out of the console. [Go to Project Usage Handbook](/getting-started/handbooks/project/usage.md).
- **Project Handbook**: Comprehensive guide for project management. [Go to Project Handbook](/getting-started/handbooks/project/manage.md).
- **Hello World**: Getting started with microservices. [Go to Hello World](/getting-started/tutorials/microservice-hello-world.mdx).
- **API Portal Tutorial**: Deep dive into the API portal and its functionalities. [Go to API Portal Tutorial](/getting-started/tutorials/api-portal.mdx).
- **Quick REST API**: Grasping the principles and best practices of RESTful APIs. [Go to Quick REST API](/getting-started/tutorials/rest-api-for-crud-on-data.mdx).
- **Custom Microservices Tutorial**: Best practices and insights on building microservices using Node.js. [Go to Custom Microservices Tutorial](/getting-started/tutorials/create-a-custom-microservice.mdx).
- **Requests Limits Tutorial**: Understanding and managing request limits. [Go to Requests Limits Tutorial](/getting-started/tutorials/set-requests-limits-of-a-microservice.mdx).
- **Authorization Tutorial**: Ensuring secure access with proper authorization mechanisms. [Go to Authorization Tutorial](/getting-started/tutorials/protect-your-endpoints-with-policies.mdx).
- **Flow Manager Tutorial**: Delving into flow management. [Go to Flow Manager Tutorial](/getting-started/tutorials/flow-manager.md).
- **Design Overview**: A comprehensive look at design principles and guidelines. [Go to Design Overview](/getting-started/tutorials/design-overview.md).
- **Project Template Integrated with Jenkins**: Setting up projects in Jenkins. [Go to Project Template Integrated with Jenkins](/getting-started/tutorials/project-template-integrated-with-jenkins.md).


### **Fast Data**
- **Fast Data Low Code Tutorial**: Diving deep into fast data functionalities. [Go to Fast Data Low Code Tutorial](/getting-started/tutorials/fast-data/low-code.mdx).
- **Bucket Storage Support Tutorial**: Understanding bucket storage in fast data. [Go to Bucket Storage Support Tutorial](/getting-started/tutorials/fast-data/bucket-storage-support.mdx).
- **Fast Data Migration**: Understanding how to migrate Fast Data. [Go to Fast Data Migration](/getting-started/tutorials/fast-data/migration.md).



### **Backoffice**
- **Backoffice Basics**: Understanding the basic functionalities of the backoffice. [Go to Backoffice Basics](/getting-started/tutorials/microfrontend-composer/basics.mdx).
- **Backoffice Templates**: Learning to use templates in the backoffice. [Go to Backoffice Templates](/getting-started/tutorials/microfrontend-composer/templates.mdx).
- **Backoffice Microfrontends**: Delving into microfrontends in the backoffice. [Go to Backoffice Microfrontends](/getting-started/tutorials/microfrontend-composer/microfrontends.mdx).

## How to Use This Page

Each page contains a detailed tutorial, allowing you to grasp the concept in depth and proceed step by step. Click on the links above to access specific content.

Happy learning!

Commit message:

*changed backoffice labels with the new name

docs/getting-started/tutorials/index.md, after:

---
id: tutorials
title: Tutorials
sidebar_label: Tutorials
---

# Introduction to the Tutorials

Welcome to the Tutorials page! This page contains a series of tutorials guides designed to help you better understand specific topics.

## Tutorials and Guides by Category

### **Console**
- **Project Usage Handbook**: Navigating and making the most out of the console. [Go to Project Usage Handbook](/getting-started/handbooks/project/usage.md).
- **Project Handbook**: Comprehensive guide for project management. [Go to Project Handbook](/getting-started/handbooks/project/manage.md).
- **Hello World**: Getting started with microservices. [Go to Hello World](/getting-started/tutorials/microservice-hello-world.mdx).
- **API Portal Tutorial**: Deep dive into the API portal and its functionalities. [Go to API Portal Tutorial](/getting-started/tutorials/api-portal.mdx).
- **Quick REST API**: Grasping the principles and best practices of RESTful APIs. [Go to Quick REST API](/getting-started/tutorials/rest-api-for-crud-on-data.mdx).
- **Custom Microservices Tutorial**: Best practices and insights on building microservices using Node.js. [Go to Custom Microservices Tutorial](/getting-started/tutorials/create-a-custom-microservice.mdx).
- **Requests Limits Tutorial**: Understanding and managing request limits. [Go to Requests Limits Tutorial](/getting-started/tutorials/set-requests-limits-of-a-microservice.mdx).
- **Authorization Tutorial**: Ensuring secure access with proper authorization mechanisms. [Go to Authorization Tutorial](/getting-started/tutorials/protect-your-endpoints-with-policies.mdx).
- **Flow Manager Tutorial**: Delving into flow management. [Go to Flow Manager Tutorial](/getting-started/tutorials/flow-manager.md).
- **Design Overview**: A comprehensive look at design principles and guidelines. [Go to Design Overview](/getting-started/tutorials/design-overview.md).
- **Project Template Integrated with Jenkins**: Setting up projects in Jenkins. [Go to Project Template Integrated with Jenkins](/getting-started/tutorials/project-template-integrated-with-jenkins.md).


### **Fast Data**
- **Fast Data Low Code Tutorial**: Diving deep into fast data functionalities. [Go to Fast Data Low Code Tutorial](/getting-started/tutorials/fast-data/low-code.mdx).
- **Bucket Storage Support Tutorial**: Understanding bucket storage in fast data. [Go to Bucket Storage Support Tutorial](/getting-started/tutorials/fast-data/bucket-storage-support.mdx).
- **Fast Data Migration**: Understanding how to migrate Fast Data. [Go to Fast Data Migration](/getting-started/tutorials/fast-data/migration.md).



### **Microfrontend Composer**
- **Microfrontend Composer Basics**: Understanding the basic functionalities of the microfrontend composer. [Go to Microfrontend Composer Basics](/getting-started/tutorials/microfrontend-composer/basics.mdx).
- **Microfrontend Composer Templates**: Learning to use templates in the microfrontend composer. [Go to Microfrontend Composer Templates](/getting-started/tutorials/microfrontend-composer/templates.mdx).
- **Microfrontend Composer Microfrontends Management**: Delving into microfrontends in the microfrontend composer. [Go to Microfrontend Composer Microfrontends](/getting-started/tutorials/microfrontend-composer/microfrontends.mdx).

## How to Use This Page

Each page contains a detailed tutorial, allowing you to grasp the concept in depth and proceed step by step. Click on the links above to access specific content.

Happy learning!
