---
id: configuration
title: Configuration
sidebar_label: Configuration
---

<!--
WARNING: this file was automatically generated by Mia-Platform Doc Aggregator.
DO NOT MODIFY IT BY HAND.
Instead, modify the source file and run the aggregator to regenerate this file.
-->

In order to configure the **Teleconsultation Service**, you need to deploy two services: the **Teleconsultation Service Backend** and the **Teleconsultation Service Frontend**.
Both are available in the Marketplace.

## Teleconsultation Service Backend Configuration

1. Create the Teleconsultation Service Backend to serve the APIs needed for the correct functionality of the Teleconsultation Service Frontend. To create the Teleconsultation Service Backend you can search for it in the Console Marketplace. Choose a name for the new service (e.g. teleconsultation-service-be).

2. Create the `/api/v1/telecons-be` endpoint for the newly created microservice. The endpoint of this microservice must be exactly this one because the Teleconsultation Service Frontend will use this path as prefix for the API calls to the Teleconsultation Service Backend.

The microservice requires the `BANDYER_API_SECRET_KEY` environment variable in order to communicate with the Kaleyra RESTful APIs.

The microservice supports two operating modes, having a different handing of user information:
- if `AUTH_SERVICE` env var is specified, the microservice service will retrieve user information from the service having given hostname.
- otherwise, user groups and full name must be provided when participants are added to the teleconsultation instance (i.e in the requests to `POST /teleconsultation`, `POST /teleconsultation/:teleconsultationId/participants/data`, `PATCH /teleconsultation/:teleconsultationId`).

### Additional information about the interaction with Auth0 

The keys defined inside the **API Key** section on the console are converted in client-types (e.g. `backoffice`, `cms`, etc.). These client-types are used by Auth0 to understand the application the user is authenticating to and get the user's data needed to make the **Teleconsultation Service** works.
If no client-type is provided a default value will be used instead.
You need to add the `DEFAULT_CLIENT_TYPE` environment variable to customize the default value of the client-type.

:::note
In order to retrieve the auth0 user's data, you need to define the `AUTHORIZATION_HEADERS_TO_PROXY` environment variable inside the **authorization-service** with value: `cookie,authorization,client-type`.

The microservice requires the `ADDITIONAL_HEADERS_TO_PROXY` environment variable with value: `x-forwarded-for,x-request-id,x-forwarded-host,cookie,client-type`, in order to forward the auth0 user's data received to the BE services called inside the microservice.
:::

### Config map settings 
The microservice requires the `TELECONSULTATION_SERVICE_CONFIG_PATH`  environment variable to specify the path where the  `JSON` config file is stored.
If no path is defined a default configuration will be used. 
The default configuration is the following:
```
{
  privileges: {
    basic: {
      groups: [
        'customer',
      ],
      tools: {
        chat: true,
        screen_sharing: true,
        file_upload: true,
        whiteboard: true,
        snapshot: true,
        live_edit: true,
        live_pointer: true,
        present_to_everyone: true,
      },
    },
    plus: {
      groups: [
        'doctor',
      ],
      tools: {
        chat: true,
        screen_sharing: true,
        file_upload: true,
        whiteboard: true,
        snapshot: true,
        live_edit: true,
        live_pointer: true,
        present_to_everyone: true,
      },
    },
  },
  theme: {
    light: {
      primaryColor: '#fff',
      accentColor: '#480ca8',
    },
    dark: {
      primaryColor: '#003049',
      accentColor: '#d62828',
    },
  },
  environment: 'sandbox',
  mode: 'window',
  companyLogo: {
    url: 'https://www.insert.url.it',
  },
}
```

Update the `JSON` configuration file in the ConfigMaps section according to your needs.

### Environment Variables

The Teleconsultation Service Backend accepts the environment variables described in the following table.

| Name                                     | Required | Default | Minimum version | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|------------------------------------------|----------|---------|-----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **BANDYER_API_SECRET_KEY**               | Yes      | -       | 1.0.0           | API Secret Key to use in order to communicate with Kaleyra's APIs.                                                                                                                                                |
| **BANDYER_BASE_URL**                     | Yes      | -       | 1.0.0           | Name of the Kaleyra API endpoint.                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| **TELECONSULTATION_SERVICE_CONFIG_PATH** | No       | -       | 1.0.0           | Full path of the updated file defined in the [previous section](#environment-variables).                                                                                                                          |
| **TELECONSULTATIONS_CRUD_NAME**          | No       | -       | 1.0.0           | Name of the endpoint of the CRUD with all the teleconsultations.                                                                                                                                                  |
| **USER_ID_MAP_CRUD_NAME**                | No       | -       | 1.0.0           | Name of the endpoint of the CRUD with all the user_ids (e.g. receivedUserId, bandyerId), for each user.                                                                                                           |
| **AUTH_SERVICE**                         | No       | -       | 1.0.0           | Name of the authentication service; if not provided, the operating mode without auth0 dependency is used (see [Teleconsultation Service Backend Configuration](#teleconsultation-service-backend-configuration)). |
| **DEFAULT_CLIENT_TYPE**                  | No       | -       | 1.0.0           | Name of the application that auth0-client uses to retrieve data of the users involved in the teleconsultation.                                                                                                    |
| **UNLIMITED_TELECONSULTATION**           | No       | `true`  | 1.1.2           | If the teleconsultation duration is infinite.                                                                                                                                                                     |
| **LIVE_TELECONSULTATION**                | No       | `true`  | 1.3.0           | If the teleconsultation ends when a participant leaves the call and the number of the remaining participants are less than two.                                                                                   |
| **IMMUTABLE_PERIOD_MS**                  | No       | 0       | 1.2.1           | How much time (in milliseconds) before the scheduled start date you can join the teleconsultation room and you can no longer update the teleconsultation.                                                         |
| **TELECONSULTATION_DELETE_UPLOADS**      | No       | `false` | 1.5.0           | If set to `true`, the files uploaded during a teleconsultation are deleted when the call ends.                                                                                                                    |

:::caution

Since v1.5.0, you can set the `TELECONSULTATION_DELETE_UPLOADS` environment variable to `true` in order to automatically delete the files uploaded by the participants during the teleconsultation session. Remember that this operation is performed every time the call is interrupted, even if that happens for external causes, like network connectivity issues. Once the participants join the teleconsultation again, if the feature is enabled they will have to upload again all the files, unless they already downloaded a copy on their devices.  

:::

:::tip

If the appointment starts at 11:00 and you want the doctor to be able to start the teleconsultation session earlier than the scheduled appointment date, you simply have to set the   `IMMUTABLE_PERIOD_MS` environment variable accordingly. So, for example, to allow the session to start up to ten minutes before the scheduled date, you can simply set `IMMUTABLE_PERIOD_MS` to 600000 (ten minutes expressed in milliseconds). If the participants join the call after 10:50, the session starts automatically as soon as they are connected.

Also remember that, in such scenario, after 10:50 the teleconsultation room would be no longer changeable, including the participants, so we recommend setting a value that leaves room for last minute changes, for example if the appointment need to be assigned to a different doctor.

:::

:::note
When retrieving the teleconsultation link, via `GET /teleconsultation/:teleconsultationId`, the actual link is returned only if the service is not accepting any further modification to the room. In this case, the teleconsultation is either inside the `IMMUTABLE_PERIOD_MS` time frame, or its `start_date` has been passed.
:::

:::warning
If `LIVE_TELECONSULTATION` is set to false, the period of time during which a participant is left alone in the call (when all the other participants left) is considered in the teleconsultation provider pricing.
:::

### Teleconsultation Service Configuration

The Teleconsultation Service Configuration is a JSON object with 5 root properties.

**1. privileges**

-   _type_: object;
-   _required_:  `true`;
-   _description_: contains 2 types of users (*basic* and *plus*) and their privileges details for the call (e.g. The tools they can use during the call).

**2. environment**

-   _type_: string;
-   _required_:  `true`;
-   _description_: can assumes two values: _sandbox_ or _production_. Specify the Kaleyra environment's you want to use.

**3. theme**

-   _type_: object;
-   _required_:  `false`;
-   _description_: define the theme of (_light_ and _dark_ mode), of the teleconsultation UI used for the call.

**4. companyLogo**

-   _type_: object;
-   _required_:  `false`;
-   _description_: contains a field called _url_, which specify the url where the company logo is stored.

**5. userIdPathInRequest**

-   _type_: array;
-   _required_:  `false`;
-   _default_: `[{ "from": "object", "extract": "headers"}, {"from": "object", "extract": "${env.USERID_HEADER_KEY}"}]` (variable interpolation is only for documentation purposes, it is not supported by the service; if needed in configmap, you must use Mia-Platform Console interpolation);
-   _description_: contains the path where the logged user's external ID is received in the fastify `request` object. It is used by `GET /teleconsultation/:teleconsultationId` request to make access control and return the correct room URL. Each step of the path is described by an object, containing:
    - a `from` property, describing how to handle the previously obtained item. The allowed values are `object`, `json` and `array`. The first occurrence must always be set to `object`, since we must handle the fastify `request` as a JS object.
    - an `extract` property, specifying the field to be extracted at the current step

The `JSON` file is structured like the following example:
```
{
  "privileges": {
    "basic": {...},
    "plus": {...}
  },
  "environment": "sandbox",
  "mode": "window",
  "theme": {
    "light": {...},
    "dark": {...}
  },
  "companyLogo": {
    "url": ""
  }
}
```

##### 1.1 Privileges parameters
This part of the configuration object lets you specify the details for the different types of users (*basic* and *plus*). At the moment the following parameters are supported:

- ##### basic
- ##### plus

Example:
```
"privileges": {
  "basic": {
    "groups": ["customer"],
    "tools": {
      "chat": true,
      "screen_sharing": true,
      "file_upload": true,
      "whiteboard": true,
      "snapshot": true,
      "live_edit": true,
      "live_pointer": true,
      "present_to_everyone": true
    }
  },
  "plus": {
    "groups": ["doctor"],
    "tools": {
      "chat": true,
      "screen_sharing": true,
      "file_upload": true,
      "whiteboard": true,
      "snapshot": true,
      "live_edit": true,
      "live_pointer": true,
      "present_to_everyone": true
    }
  }
}
```

The following specification is valid for both *basic* and *plus*:

- *type*: object;
- *required*: `true`;
- *description*: contains the groups which this user is part of and the tools which this user can use;

##### 1.1.1 Basic / Plus parameters
This part of the configuration object lets you specify the groups which this user belong to and the tools which can be used.
At the moment, the following parameters are supported:

- ##### groups
  - *type*: array;
  - *required*: `true`;
  - *description*: contains the groups' names which this user is part of;

- ##### tools
  - *type*: object;
  - *required*: `false`;
  - *description*: contains the tools which this user can use during the call;
  - *fields list*:
    - chat: 
      - *type*: boolean,
      - *description*: Enable the chat feature
    - screen_sharing: 
      - *type*: boolean,
      - *description*: Enable the screen_sharing feature
    - file_upload:
      - *type*: boolean,
      - *description*: Enable the capability to send file
    - whiteboard:
      - *type*: boolean,
      - *description*: If true enable all the whiteboard tools
    - snapshot:
      - *type*: boolean,
      - *description*: Enable the snapshot feature (let's you take a screenshot during the call)
    - live_edit:
      - *type*: boolean,
      - *description*: Enable the live edit feature
    - live_pointer:
      - *type*: boolean,
      - *description*: Enable to send pointer-events to others participants (always active in reception)
    - present_to_everyone:
      - *type*: boolean,
      - *description*: Enable the capability to force your own video to be featured for other participants

##### 4.1 Theme parameters
Specify two modes for the theme: _light_ and _dark_ mode.

- **light**
- **dark**

Example:
```
"theme": {
  "light": {
    "primaryColor": "#fff",
    "accentColor": "#480ca8"
  },
  "dark": {
    "primaryColor": "#003049",
    "accentColor": "#d62828"
  }
}
```

The following specification is valid for both *light* and *dark*:

- *type*: object;
- *required*: `false`;
- *description*: contains two fields _primaryColor_ and _accentColor_ used to customize the teleconsultation UI colors during the call.

##### 5.1 CompanyLogo parameters
Contains a field **url** which contains the URL of the company's logo.

- *type*: string;
- *required*: `false`;
- *description*: contains the URL of the company's logo.

Example:
```
"companyLogo": {
  "url": ""
}
```

## Teleconsultations CRUD
The Teleconsultation Service requires a CRUD to save the planned and performed teleconsultation data.
The collection can have any name you want, as long as you specify the correct name in the
TELECONSULTATIONS_CRUD_NAME environment variable.

A teleconsultation is the equivalent of a Room (the place where the call will have place).
Look the Overview section for more details about Room in Kaleyra.

The teleconsultations CRUD needs the following service-specific fields:
- **bandyerRoomId (required)** - `string`: the id of the Room created on Kaleyra for the call;
- **participantsNumber (required)**: the number of expected participants,
- **participants** - `array of objects`: the list of participants to the call. For each participant, it contains:
  - `userBandyerId` (_required_),
  - `accessLinkURL` (_required_),
  - `groups` (if and only if mode without Auth0 is used),
  - `fullName` (if and only if mode without Auth0 is used),
  - `language` (optional);
- **teleconsultationState** - `string`: the state of the Room (if it's available ecc.);
- **startDate (required)** - `date`: the teleconsultation's startDate.
- **endDate** - `date`: the teleconsultation's endDate.

##### participants
In order to create a teleconsultation, an array of participants needs to be specified.

The structure of this array is the following:
```
{
  participants: [
    {
      bandyerId: "bandyer_user_id_xxx",
      accessLinkURL: "link_to_the_call_for_user_xxx"
    },
    ...
  ]
}
```

- The field **bandyerId** is the kaleyra's id of a user.
- The field **accessLinkURL** is the link required in order to join the call. During the creation of a teleconsultation, every participant receives a link (valid only for that person for that teleconsultation).

## User Id Map CRUD
The Teleconsultation Service requires a CRUD in order to save the Kaleyra user id for each user which have used the teleconsultation service at least one time.
The collection can have any name you want, as long as you specify the correct name in the USER_MAP_ID_CRUD_NAME environment variable.

The user-id-map CRUD, stores for every user their receivedUserId (which is mainly used to authenticate the users), and the relative Kaleyra's id.
This allows the Teleconsultation Service Backend to communicate with Kaleyra (a user needs to be registered on Kaleyra in order to use their services).

The teleconsultations CRUD needs the following service-specific fields:
- **bandyerId (required)** - `string`: the id of the user on Kaleyra;
- **receivedUserId (required)** - `string`: the id of the user on Auth0;
