docs/microfrontend-composer/use-cases/timeline.md, before:

---
id: timeline
title:  Timeline
sidebar_label: Timeline
sidebar_position: 20
---

The **Timeline Viewer Plugin** is a generic frontend available on the Marketplace, which can be used to visualize data on a timeline. 

![Timeline Viewer Plugin](img/timeline_viewer.png)

The plugin will show several **checkpoints**, sorted by ascending time order.

![Timeline Visualization](img/timeline_1.png)

Moreover, it's possible to search the checkpoints over a field, using the search input. 

![Timeline Search](img/timeline_search.png)

## Setup

The timeline viewer plugin is served over the `/` GET endpoint. Additional parameters needs to be attached over the `/#/` fragment identifier. 

### Resources

This plugin requires that the checkpoints displayed has to be exposed on a dedicated micro-service over the endpoint `/:resource/json`, where `:resource` is the name of the data set that will be rendered by the timeline. 

:::info
It's strongly suggested to use as data-set a CRUD collection, since it can enable the [`live-search` feature](#visualization).
:::

The checkpoints returned by the micro-service have to comply to the following JSON Schema, which is used by the visualization to display data.

<details>
  <summary>Timeline JSON Schema</summary>

  <p>

  ```json
  {
      "type": "array",
      "items": {"$ref": "#/definitions/node"},
      "required": ["items"],
      "definitions": {
          "node": {
             "oneOf": [
                  {"$ref": "#/definitions/point"},
                  {"$ref": "#/definitions/checkpoint"},
                  {"$ref": "#/definitions/separator"}
              ]
          },
          "checkpoint": {
              "type": "object",
              "properties": {
                  "type": {"type": "string", "enum": ["checkpoint"]},
                  "level": {
                      "type": "number",
                      "multipleOf": 1.0,
                      "minimum": 1,
                      "maximum": 2,
                      "default": 1
                  },
                  "style": { "$ref": "#/definitions/checkpointStyle" },
                  "data": {
                      "type": "object",
                      "properties": {
                          "name": {"type": "string"},
                          "detail": { "$ref": "#/definitions/dataPoint"}
                      },
                      "additionalProperties": false,
                      "required": ["name"]
                  }
              },
              "required": ["type", "data"]
          },
          "point": {
              "type": "object",
              "properties": {
                  "type": {"type": "string", "enum": ["point"]},
                  "data": {"$ref": "#/definitions/dataPoint"}
              },
              "required": ["type", "data"]
          },
          "separator": {
              "type": "object",
              "properties": {
                  "type": {"type": "string", "enum": ["separator"]},
                  "data": {
                      "type": "object",
                      "properties": {
                          "name": {"type": "string"},
                          "description": {"type": "string"}
                      },
                      "additionalProperties": false,
                      "required": ["name"]
                  }
              },
              "required": ["type", "data"]
          },
          "checkpointStyle": {
              "type": "object",
              "properties": {
                  "primaryColor": { "type": "string" },
                  "inverted": { "type": "boolean" },
                  "icon": { "type": "string" },
                  "iconInDescription": { "type": "boolean" },
                  "position": {
                      "type": "string" ,
                      "enum": ["left", "right"]
                  }
              },
              "additionalProperties": false,
          },
          "dataPoint": {
              "type": "object",
              "properties": {
                  "group": {
                      "type": "object",
                      "properties": {
                          "id": {"type": "string"},
                          "description": {"type": "string"}
                      },
                      "required": ["id"]
                  },
                  "description": {"type": "string"},
                  "date": {"type": "string"},
                  "status": {
                      "type": "string",
                      "enum":["default", "success", "error", "info", "warn"],
                      "default": "default"
                  },
                  "extra": {
                      "type": "array",
                      "items": {
                          "type": "string"
                      },
                      "default": []
                  }
              },
              "additionalProperties": false,
              "required": ["date"]
          }
      }
  }
  ```

  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Timeline JSON Example</summary>

  <p>

  The result shown in the picture at the top of this page can be obtained by computing the following array:

  ```json
  [
      {
        "type": "checkpoint",
        "style": {
          "icon": "shopping",
          "iconInDescription": true
        },
        "data": {
          "name": "Level 1 checkpoint",
          "detail": {
            "description": "Default color, with icon",
            "date": new Date("25 July 2012").toISOString(),
            "extra": ["extra example"],
            "status": "success"
          }
        }
      },
      {
        "type": "checkpoint",
        "level": 2,
        "style": {
          "primaryColor": "#41434b",
          "inverted": true
        },
        "data": {
          "name": "Level 2 checkpoint",
          "detail": {
            "description": "Custom color, inverted graphic",
            "date": new Date("28 July 2012").toISOString(),
            "extra": [],
            "status": "success"
          }
        }
      },
      {
        "type": "point",
        "data": {
          "description": "Single point",
          "date": new Date("02 August 2012").toISOString(),
          "extra": ["{ "key": "value" }"],
          "status": "success"
        }
      },
      {
        "type": "point",
        "data": {
          "group": {
            "id": "1234",
            "description": "Group of points"
          },
          "description": "Collapsed, error point",
          "date": new Date("25 August 2012").toISOString(),
          "extra": [],
          "status": "error"
        }
      },
      {
        "type": "point",
        "data": {
          "group": {
            "id": "1234",
            "description": "Group of points"
          },
          "description": "Collapsed, success point",
          "date": new Date("26 August 2012").toISOString(),
          "extra": ["FOO", "BAR"],
          "status": "success"
        }
      },
      {
        "type": "checkpoint",
        "level": 1,
        "style": {
          "primaryColor": "#d0f0f5"
        },
        "data": {
          "name": "Level 1 checkpoint",
          "detail": {
            "description": "Custom color",
            "date": new Date("10 September 2012").toISOString(),
            "extra": [],
            "status": "error"
          }
        }
      },
      {
        "type": "point",
        "data": {
          "description": "Single error point",
          "date": new Date("14 September 2012").toISOString(),
          "extra": [],
          "status": "error"
        }
      },
      {
        "type": "checkpoint",
        "level": 2,
        "style": {
          "position": "right"
        },
        "data": {
          "name": "Level 2 checkpoint",
          "detail": {
            "description": "Custom position",
            "date": new Date("15 September 2012").toISOString(),
            "extra": ["Some extra"],
            "status": "success"
          }
        }
      }
  ]
  ```
  </p>
</details>

:::tip Resources from CRUD Collection  

You can obtain timeline resources from existing CRUD collections. 

Using [Node.js Template](/runtime_suite_templates/node.js-template/10_overview.md) you can use the following handler to retrieve data from CRUD collections and convert them to timeline data.

```js
'use strict'
const customService = require('@mia-platform/custom-plugin-lib')()

module.exports = customService(async function index(service) {
  service.addRawCustomPlugin('GET', '/timeline/:resource/json', async(request, reply) => {
    const { params: { resource }, log, query: { param } } = request

    const httpClient = request.getHttpClient('http://crud-service')
    const { payload } = await httpClient.get(`/${resource}/?param=${param}`)
    
    log.info({ payload }, 'Received response from crud')

    return reply.status(200).send(getCheckpoints(resource, payload))
  })
})
```

Please note that the `getCheckpoints` function should be implemented to meet the specific requirement of the checkpoint data you want to show through the visualization. 
:::


### Visualization

The timeline can show different checkpoint views by specifying the proper resource on the endpoint `/:resource/:resourceId`, where `:resourceId` represents the resource's field that will be used to filter points.  

Allowed query strings are:

- `selected`: used to prefill the input search and automatically search for data;
- `liveSearch`: enables live search when set to `true`, which means that all available values of the `:resourceId` field will be retrieved from the CRUD collection at `/v2/:resource` 

Every search submitted to the timeline input will generate a GET request to the endpoint `/timeline/:resourceCollection/json`, which is defined over the custom microservice.

## Customization

The default appearance of a **checkpoint** looks like the image below.

![](img/timeline_checkpoint_1.png)

### Level

The top-level property `level` defines the importance of the displayed data. Higher the level, lower the importance and, consequently,
a smaller checkpoint dot and title will be rendered. As of now the available levels are **1** (default) and **2**.

![](img/timeline_checkpoint_2.png)
![](img/timeline_checkpoint_3.png)

### Styling

The style of the checkpoint can be customized through the top-level object property `style`. The property itself and all
of its attributes are optional.

#### Custom color

The property `primaryColor` allows to define the main color of the checkpoint. The value has to be a valid hex color
code (for example: `#8c96b4`).

![](img/timeline_checkpoint_4.png)

#### Inverted graphic

The property `inverted` allows to specify if the dot and title coloring pattern have to be inverted. The value must be a boolean
(default `false`).

![](img/timeline_checkpoint_5.png)

#### Icons

The property `icon` allows to define the name of the icon to visualize inside of the checkpoint dot (*only for level 1*,
by default no icon is rendered).

Through the flag `iconInDescription` one can specify if the icon has to be displayed also in the description (*works for
both level 1 and 2*, default false).

The selectable icons are the ones provided by [ant.design v3](https://3x.ant.design/components/icon/).

![](img/timeline_checkpoint_6.png)
![](img/timeline_checkpoint_7.png)

#### Custom positioning

By default, level 1 checkpoints define the positioning of all the following elements with lower importance (the first element of the timeline
is on the right).

The property `position` allows to define a custom position for a checkpoint. If the checkpoint is of level 1, the custom
position will affect all the following elements, while if it is of level 2, the custom position will only affect that
particular element, and the following ones will maintain the default positioning.

Possible values for the property are `left` or `right`.

Commit message:

add: reference to microfrontend-composer

docs/microfrontend-composer/use-cases/timeline.md, after:

---
id: timeline
title:  Timeline
sidebar_label: Timeline
sidebar_position: 20
---

The **Timeline Viewer Plugin** is a generic frontend available on the Marketplace, which can be used to visualize data on a timeline. 

![Timeline Viewer Plugin](img/timeline_viewer.png)

The plugin will show several **checkpoints**, sorted by ascending time order.

![Timeline Visualization](img/timeline_1.png)

Moreover, it's possible to search the checkpoints over a field, using the search input. 

![Timeline Search](img/timeline_search.png)

## Setup

The timeline viewer plugin is served over the `/` GET endpoint. Additional parameters needs to be attached over the `/#/` fragment identifier. 

[The timeline can be embedded into the microfrontend-composer as an iFrame](/microfrontend-composer/tutorials/templates.mdx#setup-an-iframe-page).

### Resources

This plugin requires that the checkpoints displayed has to be exposed on a dedicated micro-service over the endpoint `/:resource/json`, where `:resource` is the name of the data set that will be rendered by the timeline. 

:::info
It's strongly suggested to use as data-set a CRUD collection, since it can enable the [`live-search` feature](#visualization).
:::

The checkpoints returned by the micro-service have to comply to the following JSON Schema, which is used by the visualization to display data.

<details>
  <summary>Timeline JSON Schema</summary>

  <p>

  ```json
  {
      "type": "array",
      "items": {"$ref": "#/definitions/node"},
      "required": ["items"],
      "definitions": {
          "node": {
             "oneOf": [
                  {"$ref": "#/definitions/point"},
                  {"$ref": "#/definitions/checkpoint"},
                  {"$ref": "#/definitions/separator"}
              ]
          },
          "checkpoint": {
              "type": "object",
              "properties": {
                  "type": {"type": "string", "enum": ["checkpoint"]},
                  "level": {
                      "type": "number",
                      "multipleOf": 1.0,
                      "minimum": 1,
                      "maximum": 2,
                      "default": 1
                  },
                  "style": { "$ref": "#/definitions/checkpointStyle" },
                  "data": {
                      "type": "object",
                      "properties": {
                          "name": {"type": "string"},
                          "detail": { "$ref": "#/definitions/dataPoint"}
                      },
                      "additionalProperties": false,
                      "required": ["name"]
                  }
              },
              "required": ["type", "data"]
          },
          "point": {
              "type": "object",
              "properties": {
                  "type": {"type": "string", "enum": ["point"]},
                  "data": {"$ref": "#/definitions/dataPoint"}
              },
              "required": ["type", "data"]
          },
          "separator": {
              "type": "object",
              "properties": {
                  "type": {"type": "string", "enum": ["separator"]},
                  "data": {
                      "type": "object",
                      "properties": {
                          "name": {"type": "string"},
                          "description": {"type": "string"}
                      },
                      "additionalProperties": false,
                      "required": ["name"]
                  }
              },
              "required": ["type", "data"]
          },
          "checkpointStyle": {
              "type": "object",
              "properties": {
                  "primaryColor": { "type": "string" },
                  "inverted": { "type": "boolean" },
                  "icon": { "type": "string" },
                  "iconInDescription": { "type": "boolean" },
                  "position": {
                      "type": "string" ,
                      "enum": ["left", "right"]
                  }
              },
              "additionalProperties": false,
          },
          "dataPoint": {
              "type": "object",
              "properties": {
                  "group": {
                      "type": "object",
                      "properties": {
                          "id": {"type": "string"},
                          "description": {"type": "string"}
                      },
                      "required": ["id"]
                  },
                  "description": {"type": "string"},
                  "date": {"type": "string"},
                  "status": {
                      "type": "string",
                      "enum":["default", "success", "error", "info", "warn"],
                      "default": "default"
                  },
                  "extra": {
                      "type": "array",
                      "items": {
                          "type": "string"
                      },
                      "default": []
                  }
              },
              "additionalProperties": false,
              "required": ["date"]
          }
      }
  }
  ```

  </p>
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Timeline JSON Example</summary>

  <p>

  The result shown in the picture at the top of this page can be obtained by computing the following array:

  ```json
  [
      {
        "type": "checkpoint",
        "style": {
          "icon": "shopping",
          "iconInDescription": true
        },
        "data": {
          "name": "Level 1 checkpoint",
          "detail": {
            "description": "Default color, with icon",
            "date": new Date("25 July 2012").toISOString(),
            "extra": ["extra example"],
            "status": "success"
          }
        }
      },
      {
        "type": "checkpoint",
        "level": 2,
        "style": {
          "primaryColor": "#41434b",
          "inverted": true
        },
        "data": {
          "name": "Level 2 checkpoint",
          "detail": {
            "description": "Custom color, inverted graphic",
            "date": new Date("28 July 2012").toISOString(),
            "extra": [],
            "status": "success"
          }
        }
      },
      {
        "type": "point",
        "data": {
          "description": "Single point",
          "date": new Date("02 August 2012").toISOString(),
          "extra": ["{ "key": "value" }"],
          "status": "success"
        }
      },
      {
        "type": "point",
        "data": {
          "group": {
            "id": "1234",
            "description": "Group of points"
          },
          "description": "Collapsed, error point",
          "date": new Date("25 August 2012").toISOString(),
          "extra": [],
          "status": "error"
        }
      },
      {
        "type": "point",
        "data": {
          "group": {
            "id": "1234",
            "description": "Group of points"
          },
          "description": "Collapsed, success point",
          "date": new Date("26 August 2012").toISOString(),
          "extra": ["FOO", "BAR"],
          "status": "success"
        }
      },
      {
        "type": "checkpoint",
        "level": 1,
        "style": {
          "primaryColor": "#d0f0f5"
        },
        "data": {
          "name": "Level 1 checkpoint",
          "detail": {
            "description": "Custom color",
            "date": new Date("10 September 2012").toISOString(),
            "extra": [],
            "status": "error"
          }
        }
      },
      {
        "type": "point",
        "data": {
          "description": "Single error point",
          "date": new Date("14 September 2012").toISOString(),
          "extra": [],
          "status": "error"
        }
      },
      {
        "type": "checkpoint",
        "level": 2,
        "style": {
          "position": "right"
        },
        "data": {
          "name": "Level 2 checkpoint",
          "detail": {
            "description": "Custom position",
            "date": new Date("15 September 2012").toISOString(),
            "extra": ["Some extra"],
            "status": "success"
          }
        }
      }
  ]
  ```
  </p>
</details>

:::tip Resources from CRUD Collection  

You can obtain timeline resources from existing CRUD collections. 

Using [Node.js Template](/runtime_suite_templates/node.js-template/10_overview.md) you can use the following handler to retrieve data from CRUD collections and convert them to timeline data.

```js
'use strict'
const customService = require('@mia-platform/custom-plugin-lib')()

module.exports = customService(async function index(service) {
  service.addRawCustomPlugin('GET', '/timeline/:resource/json', async(request, reply) => {
    const { params: { resource }, log, query: { param } } = request

    const httpClient = request.getHttpClient('http://crud-service')
    const { payload } = await httpClient.get(`/${resource}/?param=${param}`)
    
    log.info({ payload }, 'Received response from crud')

    return reply.status(200).send(getCheckpoints(resource, payload))
  })
})
```

Please note that the `getCheckpoints` function should be implemented to meet the specific requirement of the checkpoint data you want to show through the visualization. 
:::


### Visualization

The timeline can show different checkpoint views by specifying the proper resource on the endpoint `/:resource/:resourceId`, where `:resourceId` represents the resource's field that will be used to filter points.  

Allowed query strings are:

- `selected`: used to prefill the input search and automatically search for data;
- `liveSearch`: enables live search when set to `true`, which means that all available values of the `:resourceId` field will be retrieved from the CRUD collection at `/v2/:resource` 

Every search submitted to the timeline input will generate a GET request to the endpoint `/timeline/:resourceCollection/json`, which is defined over the custom microservice.

## Customization

The default appearance of a **checkpoint** looks like the image below.

![](img/timeline_checkpoint_1.png)

### Level

The top-level property `level` defines the importance of the displayed data. Higher the level, lower the importance and, consequently,
a smaller checkpoint dot and title will be rendered. As of now the available levels are **1** (default) and **2**.

![](img/timeline_checkpoint_2.png)
![](img/timeline_checkpoint_3.png)

### Styling

The style of the checkpoint can be customized through the top-level object property `style`. The property itself and all
of its attributes are optional.

#### Custom color

The property `primaryColor` allows to define the main color of the checkpoint. The value has to be a valid hex color
code (for example: `#8c96b4`).

![](img/timeline_checkpoint_4.png)

#### Inverted graphic

The property `inverted` allows to specify if the dot and title coloring pattern have to be inverted. The value must be a boolean
(default `false`).

![](img/timeline_checkpoint_5.png)

#### Icons

The property `icon` allows to define the name of the icon to visualize inside of the checkpoint dot (*only for level 1*,
by default no icon is rendered).

Through the flag `iconInDescription` one can specify if the icon has to be displayed also in the description (*works for
both level 1 and 2*, default false).

The selectable icons are the ones provided by [ant.design v3](https://3x.ant.design/components/icon/).

![](img/timeline_checkpoint_6.png)
![](img/timeline_checkpoint_7.png)

#### Custom positioning

By default, level 1 checkpoints define the positioning of all the following elements with lower importance (the first element of the timeline
is on the right).

The property `position` allows to define a custom position for a checkpoint. If the checkpoint is of level 1, the custom
position will affect all the following elements, while if it is of level 2, the custom position will only affect that
particular element, and the following ones will maintain the default positioning.

Possible values for the property are `left` or `right`.
