---
id: configuration
title: Appointment Manager configuration
sidebar_label: Configuration
---

<!--
WARNING: this file was automatically generated by Mia-Platform Doc Aggregator.
DO NOT MODIFY IT BY HAND.
Instead, modify the source file and run the aggregator to regenerate this file.
-->

The Appointment Manager can be used in two different configurations, depending on your use case:

- an **appointments mode**, if you just need to manage appointments;
- a **full mode**, if you need to configure availabilities and exceptions and want to create appointments from slots.

Whatever your use case, to deploy an instance of the microservice you have to configure the required CRUD collection(s) and the microservice itself, as described in the following sections.

## Overview

This section provides a detailed overview of the microservice configuration and the CRUD collections required.

If you are looking for instructions to configure the service in appointments or full mode, look at the [*Appointments mode*][appointments-mode] and [*Full mode*][full-mode] sections at the end of the document.

### Service configuration

:::info

**v2.3.0**
Since v2.3.0 a new service configuration field is supported: `isNotificationManagerAvailable`.

The `isNotificationManagerAvailable` configuration field, disabled by default, allows you to enable or disable the integration with the [Notification Manager][notification-manager-doc] to send messages and set reminders, as an alternative to the [Messaging Service][messaging-service-doc].

:::

:::info

**v2.2.0**
Since v2.2.0 two new service configuration fields are supported: `isFlexibleSlotAvailable` and `isParticipantStatusAvailable`.

The `isFlexibleSlotAvailable` configuration field, disabled by default for backward compatibility, enable the creation of availabilities without specifying the slot duration, resulting in flexible slots. For more details about flexible slots, please read the [*Overview* section][flexible-slots].

The `isParticipantStatusAvailable` configuration field, disabled by default for backward compatibility, enable the `participants` field in the [appointments CRUD][crud-appointments] to store status information about the participants. For more details about flexible slots, please read the [*Overview* section][participant-status].

:::

:::danger

**v2.1.0**
Since v2.1.0 the service configuration accepts a list of reminders, that you can send at different times using different templates. You need to upgrade your existing configuration before upgrading to v2.1.x, since the older `reminder` property is no longer valid.

:::

:::info

**v2.0.0**
Since v2.0.0 two new service configuration fields are supported: `isMessagingAvailable` and `isTimerAvailable`. Together with `isTeleconsultationAvailable`, these three configuration fields allow you to enable or disable the integration with the messaging, timer and teleconsultation service respectively. They are set to `false` by default, so you need to set them explicitly to `true` in order to get the Appointment Manager to generate teleconsultation links, send messages and set reminders.

:::

The service requires you to provide a configuration file in JSON format as a configmap. You can choose the
name and mounting point of the map, as long as you specify the correct path in the `CONFIGURATION_PATH` [environment variable][environment-variables].

Here's an example of a full configuration:

```json
{
  "users": {
    "doctor": {
      "create": "template_id",
      "delete": "template_id",
      "reminders": [
        {
          "template": "template_id",
          "reminderMilliseconds": 86400000   
        }
      ],
      "status": "accepted",
      "required": true,
      "acceptanceRequired": true
    },
    "patients": {
      "update": "template_id",
      "reminders": [
        {
          "template": "template_id_1",
          "reminderMilliseconds": 86400000   
        },
                  {
          "template": "template_id_2",
          "reminderMilliseconds": 3600000   
        },
      ],
      "status": "needs-action",
      "required": true,
      "acceptanceRequired": false
    }
  },
  "channels": ["email", "push", "sms"],
  "reminderThresholdMs": 86400000,
  "isTeleconsultationAvailable": true,
  "isMessagingAvailable": true,
  "isNotificationManagerAvailable": false,
  "isTimerAvailable": true,
  "isFlexibleSlotAvailable": true,
  "isParticipantStatusAvailable": true,
  "defaultLockDurationMs": 60000
}
```

A reference presentation of each available field is provided in the following table, more details are available in the following sub-sections.

| Name | Required | Default | Description |
|------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `users` | Yes | - | Templates to use for sending messages (when you `create`, `update` or `delete` an appointment) and `reminders` to appointment participants (e.g. `doctor` and `patients`) and set participant defaults. |
| `channels` | Yes | - | The list of channels to send messages on (currently supported channels: `email`, `push`, `sms`) |
| `reminderThresholdMs` | No | 0 | Send reminders only at least as early before the appointment starts. Zero means the reminders, if enabled, are always sent |
| `isTeleconsultationAvailable` | No | `false` | If the teleconsultation service is available, enable the integration to generate teleconsultation links. |
| `isMessagingAvailable` | No | `false` | If the messaging service is available, enable the integration to send messages and reminders. |
| `isNotificationManagerAvailable` | No | `false` | If the [Notification Manager][notification-manager-doc] service is available, enable the integration to send messages and set reminders. |
| `isTimerAvailable` | No | `false` | If the timer service is available, enable the integration to set reminders. |
| `isUserAvailable` | No | `false` | If the resources crud path is available, enable to recover resource's information for `POST /searches/first-available-slot/` endpoint. |
| `isFlexibleSlotAvailable` | No | `false` | If you can create availabilities without setting a fixed slot duration. | 
| `isParticipantStatusAvailable` | No | `false` | If additional status information about the participants are stored in the [appointments CRUD][crud-appointments]. | 
| `defaultLockDurationMs` | No | - | The default duration of the temporary slot lock (in milliseconds). |

:::danger

**v2.3.0**
Starting with version 2.3.0, you can choose if you want to send messages and reminders using the [Messaging Service][messaging-service-doc] or the [Notification Manager][notification-manager-doc], but you can't have them both enabled, so if you set both the `isMessagingAvailable` and `isNotificationManagerAvailable` configuration fields to `true`, the AM service returns an error on startup. 

:::

#### `users`

:::info

**v2.3.0**
Starting with version 2.3.0, if you choose to send messages and reminders using the [Notification Manager][notification-manager-doc], you must configure which messages and reminders to send using NM notification settings.

:::

With this field you can specify, for each category of users, which template to use when sending messages on different phases of an appointment lifecycle (see the [service overview][overview] for more information), and the default values for the participation status fields.

The structure of the map is the following:

```json
{
  "users_category_name": {
    "create": "template_id",
    "update": "template_id",
    "delete": "template_id",
    "reminders": [
      {
        "template": "template_id_1",
        "reminderMilliseconds": 86400000   
      },
      {
        "template": "template_id_2",
        "reminderMilliseconds": 3600000   
      }
    ],
    "status": "accepted|declined|tentative|needs-action",
    "required": true,
    "acceptanceRequired": true
  }
}
```

##### Message templates

As you can see, inside each user category you can specify four fields: **create**, **update**, **delete** and **reminders**.
Each of these fields will allow you to set the template for a specific part of the appointment lifecycle. The **reminders** field allows setting multiple templates and the amount of time before the appointment (expressed in milliseconds) when each of these templates has to be sent. 

In particular, you will have:

- `create`: where you can set the template for messages sent on the **creation of an appointment**
- `update`: where you can set the template for messages sent when **update of an appointment**
- `delete`: where you can set the template for messages sent on the **deletion of an appointment**
- `reminders`: where you can set the list of template for messages sent when **the respective appointment reminder expires**.

:::danger

**v2.1.0**

Every reminder belonging to the same user group must have an unique template id

:::

##### Participant status

:::info

**v2.2.0**

The `status`, `required` and `acceptanceRequired` fields are available only if the [`isParticipantStatusAvailable` configuration field][is-participant-status-available] is set to `true`.

:::

The `status`, `required` and `acceptanceRequired` fields allow you to specify, for a given user category, the default values.
Since these fields are fully managed by the AM and accessible in read only through the API, setting these defaults is currently the only way to set the corresponding values in the [appointment CRUD fields][crud-appointments].

The following table gives you an overview of how you can configure these fields.

| Name               | Type      | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
|--------------------|-----------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| status             | `string`  | If the user accepts (`accepted`), declines (`declined`) or tentatively accepts (`tentative`) the appointment. Omit the field or set it to `needs-action` if you expect the participant to provide an explicit feedback. |
| required           | `boolean` | If the participant is required to participate.                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| acceptanceRequired | `boolean` | If the participants must answers to the invitation by accepting or declining explicitly the appointment.                                                                                           |

The `status` field can have the following values, that follow the semantic of the [FHIR Participation Status standard][fhir-participation-status]:

- `accepted`: the participant accepted the appointment;
- `declined`: the participant declined the appointment;
- `tentative`: the participant tentatively accepted the appointment;
- `needs-action`: the participant did not provide a feedback about the participation.

So, if you have a `users` field looking like this:

```json
{
  "users": {
    "doctor": {
      "status": "accepted",
      "required": true,
      "acceptanceRequired": false
    },
    "patients": {
      "status": "needs-action",
      "required": true
    }
  }
}
```

and a new appointment is created with the following custom user fields:

```json
{
  "doctor": "dr.gregory.house",
  "patients": ["mary.winston", "lucy.watson"]
}
```

then the resulting appointment has a new `participants` field looking like this:

```json
{
  "doctor": "dr.gregory.house",
  "patients": ["mary.winston", "lucy.watson"],
  "participants": [
    {
      "id": "dr.gregory.house",
      "type": "doctor",
      "status": "accepted",
      "required": true,
      "acceptanceRequired": false
    },
    {
      "id": "mary.winston",
      "type": "patients",
      "status": "needs-action",
      "required": true
    },
    {
      "id": "lucy.watson",
      "type": "patients",
      "status": "needs-action",
      "required": true
    }
  ]
}
```

To summarize, for each user ID in a custom users field, a new participant is added with the following properties:

- `id` (**required**): the user ID from the custom user field;
- `type` (**required**): the name of the custom user field;
- `status`: the value of the `status` field, if provided under the corresponding `users` configuration field; 
- `required`: the value of the `required` field, if provided under the corresponding `users` configuration field;
- `acceptanceRequired`: the value of the `acceptanceRequired` field, if provided under the corresponding `users` configuration field.

If participants are added or removed from the custom user fields, they are automatically added or removed following the rules described above.

:::tip

You can include additional user properties, like first and last name, by setting the [`isUserAvailable` configuration field][is-user-available].

:::

#### `channels`

In the channels field you can specify the list of channels on which the Appointment Manager will send messages. Possible
values are **email**, **sms**, and **push**.

A correct configuration may be

```json
{
  "channels": ["email", "push"]
}
```

#### `reminderThresholdMs`

This field defines a time threshold (in milliseconds) under which reminders are not sent.
For instance, if you don't want any reminders sent if the created appointment is set to happen below the next 24 hours, 
you can define a threshold of `86400000` ms as follows:

```json
{
  "reminderThresholdMs": 86400000
}
```

This behavior also applies in case of appointment update.
Please also note that if the threshold is not defined, reminders are always sent.

#### `isTeleconsultationAvailable`

A `boolean` which determines if the teleconsultation service can be used.
If the value is set to **false**, the user can't use the teleconsultation.
If the value is set to **true**, the user can choose between teleconsultation or onsite modes.

The default value is **false**.

#### `isMessagingAvailable`

:::caution

**v2.3.0**
If both this field and the `isNotificationManagerAvailable` field are set to `true`, an error is raised at startup, since only one can be enabled at the same time.

:::

:::info

**v2.0.0**
This configuration field is supported only from v2.0.0

:::

A `boolean` which determines if the messaging service can be used.
If the value is set to **false**, the user can't send messages or reminders.
If the value is set to **true**, the user can configure which messages are sent to which participants.

The default value is **false**.

#### `isNotificationManagerAvailable`

:::info

**v2.3.0**
This configuration field is supported only from v2.3.0

:::

:::caution

If both this field and the `isMessagingAvailable` field are set to `true`, an error is raised at startup, since only one can be enabled at the same time.

:::

A `boolean` which determines if the Notification Service can be used.
If the value is set to **false**, the user can't send messages or reminders.
If the value is set to **true**, the user can configure which messages are sent to which participants using the NM notification settings.

The default value is **false**.

#### `isTimerAvailable`

:::info

**v2.0.0**
This configuration field is supported only from v2.0.0

:::

A `boolean` which determines if the messaging service can be used.
If the value is set to **false**, the user can't send set reminders.
If the value is set to **true**, the user can configure the reminders templates and when they are sent.

The default value is **false**.

#### `isUserAvailable`

:::info

**v2.1.0**
This configuration field is supported only from v2.1.0 and requires, when set to `true`, the following environment variables: `USERS_CRUD_NAME`, `USER_ID_FIELD_NAME`.

:::

A `boolean` which determines if resource CRUD path has been configured.
If the value is set to **false**, the user can't use search endpoints.
If the value is set to **true**, the user can call the `POST /searches/first-available-slot/` endpoint.
The default value is **false**.

#### `isFlexibleSlotAvailable`

:::info

**v2.2.0**
This configuration field is supported only from v2.2.0

:::

:::info

This configuration option is ignored when the AM is deployed in [*Appointments mode*][appointments-mode].

:::

A `boolean` which determines if you can create availabilities without setting a fixed slot duration.

If the value is set to **false** (*default*), you must always provide a slot duration when creating the availability (see the [POST /availabilities/ endpoint][create-availability]) and you can only change its value later (see the [PATCH /availabilities/:id endpoint][update-availability]).

If the value is set to **true**, you can create availabilities without specifying a slot duration (see the [POST /availabilities/ endpoint][create-availability]) or you can remove a slot duration from an existing availability (see the [PATCH /availabilities/:id endpoint][update-availability]).

#### `isParticipantStatusAvailable`

:::info

**v2.2.0**
This configuration field is supported only from v2.2.0 and is disabled by default for backward compatibility.

:::

A `boolean` which determines if the `participants` field in the [appointments CRUD][crud-appointments] is required and used to store additional status information about the participants.

If the value is set to **false** (*default*), you don't need the `participants` fields in the CRUD and the appointment only stores the IDs of the participants in the [`users` configuration field][users].

If the value is set to **true**, the AM automatically updates the `participants` field every time a participant is added or removed from the appointment through the [`users` configuration field][users].

#### `defaultLockDurationMs`

This field defines the default duration in milliseconds of the temporary slot lock.
For instance:

```json
{
  "defaultLockDurationMs": 60000
}
```

### Environment variables

The Appointment Manager accepts the following environment variables.

| Name | Required | Description |
|------|----------|-------------|
| **CONFIGURATION_PATH** | Yes | Path of the config map file containing the service configuration. |
| **CRUD_SERVICE_NAME** | Yes | Name of the CRUD service. |
| **RESOURCE_ID_FIELD_NAME** | Yes | Name of the CRUD field containing the resource ID (the field must be present in the availabilities, appointments and exceptions CRUD collections). |
| **DEFAULT_TIME_ZONE** | Yes | Default IANA time zone, to be used when no time zone is specified by the client when creating new availabilities. |  
| **APPOINTMENTS_CRUD_NAME** | Yes | Name of the CRUD collection containing the appointments. |
| **AVAILABILITIES_CRUD_NAME** | In full mode | Name of the CRUD collection containing the availabilities. |
| **EXCEPTIONS_CRUD_NAME** | In full mode | Name of the CRUD collection containing the exceptions. |
| **USERS_CRUD_NAME** | If `isUserAvailable` is `true` | Name of the CRUD collection containing the users. |
| **USER_ID_FIELD_NAME** |  If `isUserAvailable` is `true`  | Name of the CRUD field containing the user ID in the users CRUD. |
| **MESSAGING_SERVICE_NAME** | If `isMessagingAvailable` or `isTimerService` is `true` | Name of the Messaging Service. **Required** if you want to send messages or set reminders using the Messaging Service. |
| **NOTIFICATION_MANAGER_NAME** | If `isNotificationManagerAvailable` is `true` | Name of the Notification Manager service. **Required** if you want to send messages or set reminders using the Notification Manager. |
| **TIMER_SERVICE_NAME** | If `isTimerService` is `true` | Name of the Timer Service. **Required** if you want to set reminders using the Messaging Service. |
| **TELECONSULTATION_SERVICE_NAME** | If `isTeleconsultationAvailable` is `true` | Name of the teleconsultation service. **Required** if you want to create teleconsultations. |
| **TELECONSULTATION_ENDPOINT_FE** | If `isTeleconsultationAvailable` is `true` | Endpoint associated with the Teleconsultation Service FrontEnd (the root). **Required** if you want to create teleconsultations. |
| **TELECONSULTATION_BASE_PATH** | If `isTeleconsultationAvailable` is `true` | Custom base path for the teleconsultation URL. **Required** if you want to create teleconsultations. |
| **PARTICIPANT_USER_PROPERTIES** | If `isParticipantStatusAvailable` and `isUserAvailable` are set to `true` | Comma-separated list containing the fields in the users crud to insert in the appointment `participants` array. |

### CRUD collections

The following sections describe the schema of each CRUD collection used by the Appointment Manager.

Availabilities, appointments and exceptions CRUD collections need to have a `string` field with any name of your choice, as long as you specify it in the `RESOURCE_ID_FIELD_NAME` [environment variable][environment-variables], containing the resource ID. This field is necessary to correlate availabilities and appointments to exceptions referring to the same resource. 
The name of the `string` field in the users CRUD collection that identifies a user can be specified in the `USER_ID_FIELD_NAME` [environment variable][environment-variables].

#### Appointments CRUD collection

:::info

**v2.3.0**
Starting from v2.3.0, if you set reminders using the [Notification Manager][notification-manager-doc], the reminders are not saved in the `reminderIds` field.

:::

:::info

**v2.2.0**
Starting from v2.2.0 the new `participants` field is used to store additional details about the participants status.
You need to add the field to the CRUD only if you enable the feature by explicitly setting the [`isParticipantStatusAvailable` configuration field][is-participant-status-available] to `true`.

:::

:::info

**v2.0.0**
Starting from v2.0.0 the `slotId` field is no longer used since slots are computed dinamically. The new `availabilityId` field is introduced to link an appointment to an availability and, in combination with `startDate` and `endDate`, to a specific slot.
Since the slots CRUD collection is no longer used, this CRUD collection also stores the appointment reservations and inherits from the slots CRUD collection two fields: `status` and `lockExpiration`.
A new `isFlagged` field is added to track the appointments whose slots are no longer valid and may need to be rescheduled.

:::

The Appointment Manager requires a CRUD containing the appointments. The collection can have any name you want, as long as you specify the correct name in the `APPOINTMENTS_CRUD_NAME` [environment variable][environment-variables].

The appointments collection must have the following fields, plus the same custom fields defined in the [availabilities CRUD][crud-availabilities]:

| Name                 | Type | Required | Nullable | Description |
|----------------------|------|----------|----------|-------------|
| startDate            | `date` | Yes | No | Start date/time expressed in format ISO 8601. |
| endDate              | `date` | Yes | No | End date/time expressed in format ISO 8601. |
| availabilityId       | `string` | In full mode | No | ID of the appointment's related availability. |
| ownerId              | `string` | In full mode | No | User who booked the appointment. |
| slotId               | `string` | No | No | Slot ID for backward compatibility. |
| reminderMilliseconds | `number` | No | No | Amount of time before the appointment when users are notified about it (expressed in milliseconds). |
| reminderIds          | `array of ObjectId` | No | No | List of unique identifiers of the reminders associated with the appointment. |
| channels             | `array of string` | No | No | List of communication channels used to send messages and reminders. Possible values are **email**, **sms**, and **push**. |
| isRemote             | `boolean` | No | No | If an appointment will use the teleconsultation or not. |
| linkTeleconsultation | `string` | No | No | The link to join the teleconsultation. |
| isFlagged            | `boolean` | No | No | If an appointment may need to be rescheduled because the associated slot is no longer available. |
| status               | `string` | Yes | No | The status of the appointment: `AVAILABLE` (reserved but not confirmed) or `BOOKED` (confirmed). |
| lockExpiration       | `date` | No | Yes | The expiration of the slot's temporary lock (expressed in format **ISO 8601**), set when the slot is locked with the `PATCH /slots/lock/:id`. |
| participants         | `array of object` | No | No | A list of all the participants with status information. |

Each participant has the following properties:

| Name               | Type     | Required | Description                                                                                                                                     |
|--------------------|----------|----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| id                 | `string` | Yes      | The user ID, corresponding to the value in the [custom user field][users].                                                                      |
| type               | `string` | Yes      | The role or group the user belongs to, corresponding to the name of the [custom user field][users] containing it.                               |
| status             | `string` | Yes      | If the user (tentatively) accepted or declined the appointment. Admitted values: `accepted`, `declined`, `tentative`, `needs-action`. These values have the same semantic of the [FHIR ParticipationStatus][fhir-participationstatus] value set. |
| required           | `boolean` | Yes      | If the user is required to attend the appointment.     |
| acceptanceRequired | `boolean` | Yes      | If the user is expected to explicitly accept or decline the participation to the appointment.   |

You also need to create a required `string` field named as specified in the [`RESOURCE_ID_FIELD_NAME` environment variable][environment-variables].  

:::tip

On top of the aforementioned fields, you can add any field you want to the CRUD. The service will treat them as the CRUD would.

:::

:::warning

If you want to use the Appointment Manager in conjunction with the Calendar component of the Backoffice, you need to add a required property **title (string)** to your CRUD.

:::

As explained in the [service overview][overview], the service assumes that the users involved in an appointment are
contained in one or more attributes of the appointment itself.

When you create your CRUD you will need to create a new field for each category of users you will need to involve in the
event. These fields have to be of type `string` or `array of string`.

The AM will automatically keep the `participants` field aligned with these fields.

#### Availabilities CRUD collection

:::info

**v2.2.0**
Starting from v2.2.0 the slot duration (`slotDuration`) is no longer required if [`isFlexibleSlotAvailable` configuration option][service-configuration] is set to `true` (`false` by default), resulting in flexible duration slots.
For more details about flexible duration slots, take a look at the [*Overview* section][flexible-slots].

The following optional fields have been added: `onCreate`, `onUpdate`, `onDelete` and `onCompute`.
If you have custom properties with these names, please rename them before upgrading from a version prior to 2.2.0.

:::

:::info

**v2.0.0**
Starting from v2.0.0 a document in the availabilities CRUD collection represents a single or recurring availability, while the daily occurrences of each availability are computed dynamically.
For users coming from version 1.x.x, the field `slotIds` is no longer used since slots are computed dinamically, and we use the unique identifier generated from the CRUD for each availability to replace `recurrenceUuid`.

The new `availabilityId` field is introduced to link an appointment to an availability and, in combination with `startDate` and `endDate`, to a specific slot.

:::

The Appointment Manager can also have a CRUD containing the availabilities. The collection can have any name you want, as long as you
specify the correct name in the `AVAILABILITIES_CRUD_NAME` [environment variable][environment-variables].

The availabilities collection must have the following fields:

| Name | Type | Required | Description |
|------|------|----------|-------------|
| startDate | `date` | Yes | Start date/time of the first occurrence of the availability, expressed in format **ISO 8601** |
| endDate | `date` | Yes | End date/time of the first occurrence of the availability, expressed in format **ISO 8601** |
| slotDuration | `number` | No | The duration of the slot (in minutes). **Required** before version 2.2.0. |
| simultaneousSlotsNumber | `number` | Yes | The number of appointments you can book in each slot. |
| each | `string` | No | The frequency of a recurring availability: daily (`day`), weekly (`week`) or monthly (`month`). |
| on | `Array of number` | No | The weekdays on which a weekly availability occurs (0 for Sunday, 1 for Monday, 2 for Tuesday, and so on). |
| untilDate | `date` | No | The expiration date of a recurring availability. If the field is omitted, the availability never expires. |
| timeZone | `string` | No | The IANA time zone of the availability. |
| onCreate | `Object` | No | The custom behaviors when the availability is created. |
| onUpdate | `Object` | No | The custom behaviors when the availability is updated. |
| onDelete | `Object` | No | The custom behaviors when the availability is deleted. |
| onCompute | `Object` | No | The custom behaviors when the availability occurrences and slots are computed. |

You also need to create a required `string` field named as specified in the [`RESOURCE_ID_FIELD_NAME` environment variable][environment-variables].  

:::tip

On top of the aforementioned fields, you can add any custom field you want to the CRUD. The service will treat them as the CRUD would.

:::

#### Exceptions CRUD collection

:::info

**v2.0.0**
Starting from v2.0.0 the Appointment Manager needs an exceptions collection when used in full mode.

:::

The Appointment Manager can have also a CRUD containing the exceptions. The collection can have any name you want, as long as you
specify the correct name in the `EXCEPTIONS_CRUD_NAME` [environment variable][environment-variables].

The exceptions collection must have the following fields:

| Name | Type | Required | Description |
|------|------|----------|-------------|
| startDate | `date` | Yes | Start date/time of the exception, expressed in format **ISO 8601** |
| endDate | `date` | Yes | End date/time of the exception, expressed in format **ISO 8601** |
| reason | `string` | No | The reason for the absence of the resource (a doctor vacation, an equipment out of use, ...) |

You also need to create a required `string` field named as specified in the [`RESOURCE_ID_FIELD_NAME` environment variable][environment-variables].

:::tip

On top of the aforementioned fields, you can add any field you want to the CRUD. The service will treat them as the CRUD would.

:::

#### Users CRUD collection

The Appointment Manager uses the users CRUD collection to fetch additional information about appointments participants. This collection is currently required only by the following endpoints:

- `POST /searches/first-available-slot/`.

## Appointments mode

:::caution

**v2.3.0**
Starting with version 2.3.0, you can choose between two different configurations to send messages or reminders:

- use the [Messaging Service][messaging-service-doc] to send messages and the [Timer Service][timer-service-doc] to send the reminders;
- use the [Notification Manager][notification-manager-doc] to both send messages and reminders.

You should choose carefully which configuration to use, since you cannot easily change it later. 

:::

This section provide instructions on how to configure the Appointment Manager to deploy it in appointments mode.

- Create the [service configuration][service-configuration] JSON file, defining the users to notify and the external services to integrate with.

- If you enabled the integration with the teleconsultation service, setting `isTeleconsultationAvailable` to `true`, set the following environment variables:

  - `TELECONSULTATION_SERVICE_NAME`;
  - `TELECONSULTATION_ENDPOINT_FE`;
  - `TELECONSULTATION_BASE_PATH`.

- If you enabled the integration with the [Messaging Service][messaging-service-doc], setting `isMessagingAvailable` to `true`, set the following environment variables:

  - `MESSAGING_SERVICE_NAME`.

- (**v2.3.0 and later**) If you enabled the integration with the [Notification Manager][notification-manager-doc] service, setting `isNotificationManagerAvailable` to `true`, set the following environment variables:

  - `NOTIFICATION_MANAGER_NAME`.

- If you enabled the integration with the [Timer Service][timer-service-doc], setting both `isMessagingAvailable` and `isTimerAvailable` to `true`, set the following environment variables:

  - `MESSAGING_SERVICE_NAME`;
  - `TIMER_SERVICE_NAME`.

- If you enabled the integration with an external users CRUD, setting the `isUserAvailable` to `true`, set the following environment variables:

  - `USERS_CRUD_NAME`: the name of the [users CRUD collection][crud-users];
  - `USER_ID_FIELD_NAME`: the name of the [users CRUD collection][crud-users] field containing the user ID as passed in the [custom user fields][users];

- If you enabled the participants field with user properties, setting both `isParticipantStatusAvailable` and `isUserAvailable` to `true`, set the following environment variables: 

  - `USERS_CRUD_NAME`: the name of the [users CRUD collection][crud-users];
  - `USER_ID_FIELD_NAME`: the name of the [users CRUD collection][crud-users] field containing the user ID as passed in the [custom user fields][users];
  - `PARTICIPANT_USER_PROPERTIES`: a comma-separated list of [users CRUD collection][crud-users] fields to add to each appointment participant under the `userProperties` field.

- Choose a name for the CRUDs field containing the resource ID (e.g. `resourceId`) and assign this value to the `RESOURCE_ID_FIELD_NAME` environment variable.

- Create the [appointments CRUD collection][crud-appointments] with at least the following custom properties:

  - one field for each [`users`][users] category defined in the service configuration;
  - a required field with type `string` containing the resource ID (e.g. `resourceId`);
  - the `participants` field, if you set the [`isParticipantStatusAvailable` configuration field][is-participant-status-available] to `true`.

- Add the name of the [appointments CRUD collection][crud-appointments] to the `APPOINTMENTS_CRUD_NAME` [environment variable][environment-variables].

:::caution

Since the reminder service in turn requires the messaging service to send reminders, if you set `isTimerAvailable` to `true` you must also set `isMessagingAvailable` to `true`.

:::

## Full mode

This section provide instructions on how to configure the Appointment Manager to deploy it in full mode.

- Configure the service performing all the steps described in [**Appointments mode**][appointments-mode]

- Create the [availabilities CRUD collection][crud-availabilities] with at least the following custom properties:

  - a required field with type `string` containing the resource ID (e.g. `resourceId`);

- Add the name of the [availabilities CRUD collection][crud-availabilities] to the `AVAILABILITIES_CRUD_NAME` [environment variable][environment-variables].

- Create the [exceptions CRUD collection][crud-exceptions] with at least the following custom properties:

  - a required field with type `string` containing the resource ID (e.g. `resourceId`);

- Add the name of the [exceptions CRUD collection][crud-exceptions] to the `EXCEPTIONS_CRUD_NAME` [environment variable][environment-variables].

:::caution

Since the reminder service in turn requires the messaging service to send reminders, if you set `isTimerAvailable` to `true` you must also set `isMessagingAvailable` to `true`.

:::


[crud-service-doc]: /runtime_suite/crud-service/overview_and_usage "CRUD Service official documentation"
[messaging-service-doc]: /runtime_suite/messaging-service/overview "Messaging Service official documentation"
[notification-manager-doc]: /runtime_suite/messaging-service/overview "Notification Manager"
[timer-service-doc]: /runtime_suite/timer-service/overview "Timer Service official documentation"
[teleconsultation-service-doc]: /runtime_suite/teleconsultation-service-backend/overview "Teleconsultation Service official documentation"
[fhir-participation-status]: https://www.hl7.org/fhir/valueset-participationstatus.html

[overview]: ./10_overview.md "Overview page"
[flexible-slots]: ./10_overview.md#flexible-slots "Flexible slots | Availabilities and slots | Overview"
[participant-status]: ./10_overview.md#participant-status "Participant status | User participants | Appointments | Overview"

[service-configuration]: #service-configuration "Service configuration | Configuration"
[environment-variables]: #environment-variables "Environment variables | Configuration"
[crud-availabilities]: #availabilities-crud-collection "Availabilities CRUD collection | CRUD collections | Configuration"
[crud-exceptions]: #exceptions-crud-collection "Exceptions CRUD collection | CRUD collections | Configuration"
[crud-appointments]: #appointments-crud-collection "Appointments CRUD collection | CRUD collections | Configuration"
[crud-users]: #users-crud-collection
[appointments-mode]: #appointments-mode "Appointments mode | Configuration"
[full-mode]: #full-mode "Full mode | Configuration"
[users]: #users "Users | Service configuration | Configuration"
[is-participant-status-available]: #isparticipantstatusavailable "`isParticipantStatusAvailable` | Service configuration | Configuration"
[is-user-available]: #isuseravailable

[create-availability]: ./30_usage.md#post-availabilities "POST /availabilities/ | Availabilities | Usage"
[update-availability]: ./30_usage.md#patch-availabilitiesid "PATCH /availabilities/:id | Availabilities | Usage"

[fhir-participationstatus]: https://www.hl7.org/fhir/valueset-participationstatus.html "Valueset-participationstatus - FHIR v5.0.0"
