---
id: v13.2.1
title: Version 13.2.1 Release Notes
sidebar_label: v13.2.1
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

_October 24th, 2024_

## Console

### Improvements

#### Integration of webhook payload on “Project Created”

Data regarding the template used to create the Project and other information about it has been added to the “Project Created” event payload. 

More information can be found on the [respective documentation](/docs/13.7.5/console/company-configuration/events).

#### Versions details when creating a versioned Marketplace item

We have improved the experience of creating a versioned resource from the Marketplace by adding the possibility to see the detail of each version before instantiating the resource.
You only have to open the versions selector and click on the "Version details" button: a modal window will open with the details of the selected version.

### Bug Fix

This version addressed the following bugs:

* we fixed a bug that caused the Project Homepage to not show running pods even though they were present;
* we fixed a bug that caused the environments selector to disappear once you clicked on an extension at the Runtime level;
* we fixed a bug that was causing the `Tag Created` event to not include `project` data in the payload;
* we fixed a wrong behavior that prevented the user to correctly save the configuration after performing a merge of configurations.

## Fast Data

### Fast Data Services

#### Control Plane Frontend

The new version `0.4.1` of the Control Plane frontend service in Fast Data Control Plane application is available!

##### Improvements

* Added the logout button in the navigation header so that it is possible to logout even in case of errors or unauthorized access.

## Microfrontend Composer

### Back-Kit Library

The new version `v1.5.8` of the back-kit library is available!

Refer to back-kit [changelog](/docs/13.7.5/microfrontend-composer/back-kit/changelog) for finer-grained details of new versions.

#### Bug Fix

- Fixed csv export bug when selecting in the column name the field ID's option

## Marketplace

### Marketplace Updates

#### CRUD Service

The new version `7.2.1` of the CRUD Service is available!

##### Bug Fixes

* improve how query parser discriminates update operator modifiers (e.g. `$each`) from actual record value
* introduce support for `$eq` operator also for integer fields (the ones defined in nested array and objects)

## How to update your Console

For self-hosted installations, please head to the [self hosted upgrade guide](/docs/13.7.5/infrastructure/self-hosted/installation-chart/how-to-upgrade) or contact your Mia-Platform referent and upgrade to _Console Helm Chart_ `v13.7.4`.
