---
id: v13.6.1
title: Version 13.6.1 Release Notes
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

_February 20th, 2025_

## Console

### Improvements

#### Auto-generated form in Infrastructure Resource Creation

For Marketplace Infrastructure Resources with configured JSON schemas, the creation process within the Design area offers an auto-generated form. This form facilitates the input of all required properties, each accompanied by a user-oriented description.

To discover more about this feature, go to the [respective documentation](/docs/13.7.5/software-catalog/manage-items/mia-ctl/create/create-item-by-type/create_infrastructure_resource#generate-dynamic-form-of-the-to-customize-validation-of-your-infrastructure-resource).

### Bug Fix

This version addressed the following bugs:

- Fixed an issue that prevented the "Docker Image Name" field of a resource from being changed if it was connected to a container registry;
- An issue that caused an inability to delete an environment in the Blueprint from the company has been corrected.

## Fast Data

### Fast Data Services

#### Real Time Updater

The new version `v7.11.1` of the _Real Time Updater_ is available!

##### Fixed

- Previously, when the service was configured to also generate projection changes (standard architecture), we detected an edge case where some strategies were inadvertently skipped.
Now, the behavior has been fixed, allowing that only the strategies that should be skipped are actually excluded from execution.

For more information check out the service [changelog](/docs/13.7.5/runtime_suite/real-time-updater/changelog).

## Marketplace

### Marketplace Updates

#### API Portal & Swagger Aggregator

A new version `2.2.0` of API Portal and `3.9.1` of Swagger Aggregator are out!

This updates are related to both services and introduce several new features aimed at enhancing customization and flexibility:
- **Custom Logo and Favicon**: You can now personalize your API Portal by uploading a custom logo and/or favicon for a more branded experience.
- **Custom Prefix for /api/openapi/ Endpoints**: A new option allows you to set a custom prefix for your `/api/openapi/` endpoints.
- **Global Server Selection**: We've added a global server selector, enabling you to choose the desired server for your API endpoints from a centralized location.

## How to update your Console

For self-hosted installations, please head to the [self hosted upgrade guide](/docs/13.7.5/infrastructure/self-hosted/installation-chart/how-to-upgrade) or contact your Mia-Platform referent and upgrade to _Console Helm Chart_ `v13.10.1`.
