---
id: v13.6.2
title: Version 13.6.2 Release Notes
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

_March 20th, 2025_

## Console

### Clone Microservice repository via Cursor AI IDE

From now on, you can clone the code repository of your Microservice Templates and Examples also with Cursor AI IDE.  
The code repository can be copied with both `ssh` and `https`.

For more information about the clone functionality with Cursor AI, head to the [Microservice configuration documentation page](/docs/13.7.5/development_suite/api-console/api-design/services#manage-microservices).

### Improvements

#### Custom label selector support for Projects import 

We added support for custom label selectors when performing a Kubernetes workload import into your Project from existing files.

To discover more about the import feature, head to the [miactl commands documentation](/docs/13.7.5/cli/miactl/commands).

#### Meaningful errors for Item Creation/Update in Software Catalog and miactl 

This release enhances error messages in the Software Catalog and miactl, providing clearer and more actionable feedback when creating or updating items, making it easier to diagnose and resolve issues.

### Bug Fix

This version address the following bug:

* we fixed a graphical bug that was not correctly showing the options to perform "Restore Changes" and "Select for Compare" actions within the revision History modal.
* added placeholders for empty, read-only fields in the event and state sidebar in the Flow Manager Configurator.
* added support for retaining shapes in unlinked flows within the Flow Manager Configurator.
* fixed the retention of "wait-for" logic blocks in unlinked flows that are not connected to any receiving state in the Flow Manager Configurator.

## Fast Data

### Fast Data Services

#### Real Time Updater

The new version `v7.11.2` of the _Real Time Updater_ is available!

##### Fixed

- Previously, when the service was configured to also generate projection changes (standard architecture), a huge amount of concurrent strategies 
  would cause an infinite loop to the service once the limit was reached. Now, this behavior has been fixed, allowing multiple concurrent strategies to not block the service.

For more information check out the service [changelog](/docs/13.7.5/runtime_suite/real-time-updater/changelog).

## Marketplace

### Marketplace Updates

#### Swagger Aggregator

The new version `3.9.2` of the Swagger Aggregator is available!

* `example` and `examples` keys are removed from `parameters` object inside `paths` by default

#### Appointment Manager

The new version `2.5.0` of the Appointment Manager is available!

* Automatically truncate `startDate` and `endDate` of exceptions to the second

#### Care Kit

The new version `2.9.3` of Care Kit is available!

* `ck-patient-dashboard`: Fix word-break

#### Chat Service Frontend

A new version `1.0.1` of Chat Service Frontend is available!

#### Device Manager

The first version `1.0.0` of Device Manager is available!

#### Email Builder

The first version `1.0.0` of Email Builder is available!

#### FHIR Adapter

The new version `1.0.5` of FHIR Adapter is available!

* Upgrade base Docker image and project dependencies

#### FHIR Server

The new version `2.0.0` of FHIR Server is available!

The new version switches to the [HAPI FHIR](https://hapifhir.io/) official [Docker image](https://hub.docker.com/r/hapiproject/hapi).

#### Form Service Backend

The new version `2.1.1` of Form Service Backend is available!

* Form metadata can be edited after form is expired

#### Form Service Frontend

The new version `2.1.1` of Form Service Frontend is available!

* Form metadata can be edited after form is expired

#### Notification Manager

The new version `2.4.3` of Notification Manager is available!

* Fixed reminders scheduled in the past

#### O3 DICOM Service

The new version `0.1.6` of O3 DICOM Service is available!

* Upgrade base Docker image

#### PDF Service

The new version `2.0.1` of PDF Service is available!

* Fixed tests
* Update dependencies
* Update Node.js to v18

## How to update your Console

For self-hosted installations, please head to the [self hosted upgrade guide](/docs/13.7.5/infrastructure/self-hosted/installation-chart/how-to-upgrade) or contact your Mia-Platform referent and upgrade to _Console Helm Chart_ `v13.10.2`.
