---
id: v13.6.0
title: Version 13.6.0 Release Notes
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

_February 20th, 2025_

:::caution
#### Deprecated Items

Starting from the release of v.13.6.0 of the Console, the following items will be marked as `Deprecated`. They will reach end-of-life in the upcoming Major release of v14. Please take note of the changes.

We recommend checking if you are using any of the deprecated items in your projects. No further development will occur for these items, including new versions or bug fixes. If alternatives are available, we suggest migrating to those to ensure continued support and functionality.  

  | Item Name                                | Type                 |
  |------------------------------------------|----------------------|
  | Cpp Oatpp Hello World                    | Example              |
  | Go Call CRUD Example                     | Example              |
  | GraphQL-Custom-Plugin-Example            | Example              |
  | Helidon Hello World                      | Example              |
  | Kafka2Rest Example                       | Example              |
  | Node.js Call CRUD Example                | Example              |
  | Node.js Custom Plugin with Mongo Example | Example              |
  | OpenAI Playground                        | Example              |
  | Python Falcon Hello World                | Example              |
  | Python Tornado Hello World               | Example              |
  | Rest2Kafka Example                       | Example              |
  | Rust Hello World                         | Example              |
  | Slack Webhook Example                    | Example              |
  | Springboot Decorator Example             | Example              |
  | TypeScript Hello World Example           | Example              |
  | Vapor Hello World Example                | Example              |
  | Angular 10 Template                      | Template             |
  | Data Catalog Agent                       | Template             |
  | Go Echo Template                         | Template             |
  | micro-lc Angular 12 Template             | Template             |
  | micro-lc Angular 13 Template             | Template             |
  | Node.js Daemon Template                  | Template             |
  | React Template                           | Template             |
  | TypeScript React Template                | Template             |
  | ACL Service                              | Plugin               |
  | ANIA Service Client                      | Plugin               |
  | Cron Scheduler                           | Plugin               |
  | CSV Connector Plugin                     | Plugin               |
  | Doctor Service                           | Plugin               |
  | Google Proxy FHIR Service                | Plugin               |
  | Integration Tests Service                | Plugin               |
  | IP Geolocation Service                   | Plugin               |
  | Mongo2Kafka                              | Plugin               |
  | MongoDB Reader                           | Plugin               |
  | Pharma Ecommerce Backend                 | Plugin               |
  | Single View Creator                      | Plugin               |
  | SQL DB Reader                            | Plugin               |
  | SQL Invoker                              | Plugin               |
  | Temporary Password Generator             | Plugin               |
  | Token Service                            | Plugin               |
  | CSV Connector                            | Application          |
  | Drools and Kie Server                    | Application          |
  | File Bucket                              | Application          |
  | Insurance CRUD Data Model                | Application          |
  | Secure API Gateway                       | Application          |  



#### Version N/A Deprecated

For all items that are versionable, including templates, examples, plugins, and infrastructure resources, the version `N/A` has now been deprecated. A new version has been created that is a direct clone of the `N/A` version. 
Please make sure to update the items you are utilizing to this new version to ensure compatibility and continued support.
:::

## Console

## Kubernetes Import via miactl

Seamlessly onboard pre-existing Kubernetes workloads into your Console Projects using the new `miactl project import` command!  

This feature simplifies the integration of Kubernetes resources by allowing you to import YAML definitions directly into an empty Project. While some advanced configurations may require manual adjustments, this process accelerates migration and saves time by avoiding the need to recreate resources from scratch.

For more details, check the [miactl commands documentation](/docs/13.7.5/cli/miactl/commands).

### Improvements

#### GitHub App as new authentication type

It is now possible to use GitHub Apps as an authentication method for connecting to GitHub type providers in Console.
You will only need to configure the provider by selecting the respective credential type and the respective information to be able to use them as an authentication method for the provider.


For more information, visit the [documentation page](/docs/13.7.5/console/company-configuration/providers/management#supported-credential-types).

#### New Shapes and Notes features in Flow Manager Configurator

You can now add and customize shapes and notes on the canvas. Create, resize, name, and change the color of shapes, and add notes with customizable content and colors directly from the canvas.

#### `mlp`

A new version of the Mia-Platform CLI, `mlp`, `v2.0.0` is available! It comes with the following new features:

* use configmap instead of secret as inventory storage with an improved algorithm for reducing errors during reconciliation loop
* now the deployment process is kept on waiting that all the resources are correctly applied
* rewrite of the cli for resolving several edge cases bugs

#### `miactl`

A new version of `miactl`, `v0.17.0` is available! It comes with the following new features:

* update deploy trigger command to handle deployment pipeline failure
* project import command

### Bug Fix

This version addressed the following bugs:

* we fixed an issue that caused Advanced configurations to be lost when restoring changes within the revision

## Fast Data

### Fast Data Runtime Management

Fast Data Control Plane Operator has been updated to [v0.3.0](/docs/13.7.5/runtime_suite/fast-data-control-plane-operator/changelog).

#### Breaking change

Control Plane Operator now starts accepting connections incoming from Fast Data workloads <u>only after</u> it has connected itself to the main Control Plane instance.  
In order to update to v0.3.0 of Control Plane Operator, check the specific [Migration Guide](/docs/13.7.5/fast_data/runtime_management/control_plane_operator#migration-guides).

:::caution
Consequently, both *Fast Data Control Plane Application* services and *Fast Data workloads* **must be updated** to the version supporting this behavior.
:::

For more information, visit the [compatibility matrix documentation page](/docs/13.7.5/fast_data/runtime_management/compatibility_matrix#service-latest-versions).

### Fast Data Services

#### Real Time Updater

The new version `v7.11.0` of the _Real Time Updater_ is available!

##### Added

- `forceResume` setting field to `controlPlane.settings.channel` that can either be a boolean or an object with a numeric field `timeout.ms`, defining the amount of time for control plane pipelines to be resumed after an unsuccessful connection.
- `PRODUCER_MAX_BATCH_SIZE` environment to set the number of messages of each kafka producer's batch. Defaults to 500.

##### Fixed

- Reconnect Control Plane GRPC client when Control Plane Operator restarts

For more information check out the service [changelog](/docs/13.7.5/runtime_suite/real-time-updater/changelog).

#### Projection Storer

The new version `v1.4.0` of the _Projection Storer_ is available!

##### Added

- `forceResume` setting field to `controlPlane.settings.channel` that can either be a boolean or an object with a numeric field `timeout.ms`, defining the amount of time for control plane pipelines to be resumed after an unsuccessful connection.

For more information check out the service [changelog](/docs/13.7.5/runtime_suite/projection-storer/changelog).

#### Single View Trigger Generator

The new version `v3.4.0` of the _Single View Trigger Generator_ is available!

##### Added

- `maxBatchSize` property in producer configuration to configure the number of messages that can be written in a single request
- `forceResume` setting field to `controlPlane.settings.channel` that can either be a boolean or an object with a numeric field `timeout.ms`, defining the amount of time for control plane pipelines to be resumed after an unsuccessful connection.

For more information check out the service [changelog](/docs/13.7.5/runtime_suite/single-view-trigger-generator/changelog).

#### Single View Creator

The new version `v6.8.0` of the _Single View Creator_ is available!

##### Added

- `forceResume` setting field to `controlPlane.settings.channel` that can either be a boolean or an object with a numeric field `timeout.ms`, defining the amount of time for control plane pipelines to be resumed after an unsuccessful connection.

##### Removed

- deprecated environment variables `CONTROL_PLANE_ACTIONS_TOPIC` and `CONTROL_PLANE_KAFKA_GROUP_ID`

For more information check out the service [changelog](/docs/13.7.5/runtime_suite/single-view-creator/changelog).

## Data Catalog

Data Catalog Application has been updated with new features and small improvements.

### New Features

#### Metadata Inheritance

:::caution
This feature is currently in **BETA**, so pay attention when using it.  

This feature is supported by versions of [Fabric BFF](/docs/13.7.5/data_catalog/data_catalog_fabric_bff), [Open Lineage](/docs/13.7.5/data_catalog/data_catalog_open_lineage), [Data Catalog Frontend](/docs/13.7.5/data_catalog/frontend/overview) >= v0.3.x.  
Give a look at the [Data Catalog service latest versions](/docs/13.7.5/data_catalog/data_catalog_compatibility_matrix#service-latest-versions).
:::

The Metadata Inheritance feature allows to propagate metadata from parent assets (SoR, Tables) to child assets (Tables, Columns), ensuring consistency and simplifying governance.  
To know more about how to manage inheritance of custom properties, give a look at the specific [documentation page](/docs/13.7.5/data_catalog/frontend/data_catalog_assets#metadata-inheritance).

### Improvements

- For data assets retrieved from ODBC connections, based on the provider type, from now on the UI shows useful information about namespace properties (system of record, catalog name, schema, owner, table), if present
- At the SoR-level lineage canvas, when inspecting the Jobs list between two System of Records, both `Source table` and `Target table` filters allow to select exclusively the tables involved in those displayed Jobs list
- Inside the virtual Jobs detail, the source and the target table are displayed; moreover, for a quick navigation, it is possible to click onto the source/target table name to navigate on its detail
- Virtual assets (both SoRs and Tables) can also be deleted directly from the Lineage canvas section

## Marketplace

### Marketplace Updates

#### AI RAG Chat

The application _AI RAG Chat_ has been updated with a couple of minor fixes on the backend service:

- the backend service is now called `rag-chatbot-api` and it is available as a Mia-Platform _plugin_, making it more easier to install and manage
- at application startup, the embeddings collection is automatically created if it does not exist
- the API to generate embeddings from file now supports markdown files with extension `.mdx`

:::note
The `rag-chatbot-api` plugin is available as a standalone plugin in the _Marketplace_.
:::

#### AI RAG Chat Template

We have released a new application, called _AI RAG Chat Template_: it is identical to _AI RAG Chat_, but the backend service is available as a Mia-Platform _template_: when installed, the source code (available on [GitHub](https://github.com/mia-platform/ai-rag-template)) will be forked in a new repository to allow you complete customization.

## How to update your Console

For self-hosted installations, please head to the [self hosted upgrade guide](/docs/13.7.5/infrastructure/self-hosted/installation-chart/how-to-upgrade) or contact your Mia-Platform referent and upgrade to _Console Helm Chart_ `v13.10.0-hotfix.2`.
