---
id: v13.1.1
title: Version 13.1.1 Release Notes
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

_September 30th, 2024_


## Console

### Kubernetes downward APIs as environment variables on services

The Kubernetes Downward API feature now allows applications to access Pod-specific information via environment variables. This enhances flexibility by decoupling apps from the Kubernetes API, enabling access to Pod details like name, namespace, and annotations for monitoring and logic purposes.

For more information, visit the related [documentation page](/docs/13.7.5/development_suite/api-console/api-design/services#from-downward-api).

### Improvements

#### Flow Manager configurator supports Flow Manager version 2.6.5

No-code configurability has been added for the new features introduced with Flow Manager version `2.6.5`. Namely:

- the possibility to add a JSON schema validation for events payload
- a setting to raise errors on events that are not mapped as outgoing transitions for the current state

#### Writable views endpoints support all CRUD routes

From now on, [Writable views](/docs/13.7.5/runtime_suite/crud-service/writable_views) endpoints support all CRUD routes plus the `/lookup/:id` one.

### Bug Fix

This version addressed the following bugs:

* we fixed a bug that was not showing the Extensions section when navigating via ctrl/cmd + k;
* we addressed a wrong redirect when refreshing the Extensions page;
* we fixed a bug that did not allow dashboard creation in Company Blueprints if it contained special characters.

## Fast Data

### Fast Data Services

#### Real Time Updater

Real Time Updater `v7.9.0` is **now available**!

##### New Features

It has been added the support to hard delete Projection records. This feature can be enabled by the added `DELETE_MECHANISM` env var that allows to control hard/soft delete behavior.  
For more information about this feature, visit the dedicated [documentation section](/docs/13.7.5/fast_data/configuration/realtime-updater#delete)

##### Bug Fix

When using the message adapter `db2` or `basic`, the `USE_UPSERT` env var is now overwritten to True, as the DB2 message does not contain operation type info.

For more information check out the service [changelog](/docs/13.7.5/runtime_suite/real-time-updater/changelog).

## Microfrontend Composer

### Configurator

#### Improvements

##### Template not required when creating a compose page

When creating a new page of type _compose_, choosing a staring template is no longer required. If none is chosen an empty page will be created.

## Marketplace

### Marketplace Updates

#### AI RAG Chat

The AI RAG Chat Application is now available in **stable** release, now featuring automatic embeddings generation from website pages.
For more information on how to configure your custom RAG Application, head to the [related tutorial](/docs/13.7.5/marketplace/tutorials/create-a-rag-application).

#### AI RAG Template

The new version `0.3.1` of the AI RAG Template is **now stably available**! 

#### Flow Manager

The new version `2.6.5` of the Flow Manager is available!

##### New Features

- Added possibility to specify an optional JSON schema validation for incoming events payload
- Added a setting to control whether or not unexpected events (i.e., events that are not mapped as outgoing transitions for the current saga state) should raise an error

#### CRUD Service

The new version `7.1.1` of the CRUD Service is available!

##### Bug Fix

* `/bulk` endpoints exposed by CRUD Views with lookup feature enabled are now working properly

## How to update your Console

For self-hosted installations, please head to the [self hosted upgrade guide](/docs/13.7.5/infrastructure/self-hosted/installation-chart/how-to-upgrade) or contact your Mia-Platform referent and upgrade to _Console Helm Chart_ `v13.7.2`.
