---
id: v11.6.2
title: Version 11.6.2 Release Notes
sidebar_label: v11.6.2
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

_Sep 28th, 2023_

## Console

### Improvements

#### Client Credentials as Cluster auth for AKS Clusters

Via Console, it is now possible to add Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) clusters with client credentials authentication.

By adding a new AKS cluster, it will then be possible to select "Client Credentials" as the authentication method (in addition to the classic "Token" one), making the connection to the Console more secure and reliable.

#### Delete multiple Jobs from the Runtime area

The experience of deleting Jobs from the Runtime area has been improved: you can now select and delete multiple Jobs at once, directly from `Jobs` Runtime section.  

For more information, visit the related [documentation page](/development_suite/monitoring/resources/jobs.md#deleting-jobs).

### Bug Fix

#### Changing default Git Provider in Project creation

It has been fixed a bug that caused a display error in the Git provider change function during Project creation.

## Fast Data

### Fast Data Configurator

#### New Features

##### Projection changes type is now configurable on a strategy basis

In the strategy panel of the Single View section, it is now possible to specify which Projection Changes type is handled by each strategy.

For more information, visit the related [documentation page](/fast_data/configuration/strategies.md#strategies-type)

#### Improvements

##### Manual strategies in Real-Time Updater microservice page

:::warning

This feature will be available after your first commit.

:::

Inside the _Microservices_ section, every Real-Time Updater service configured will have the Config Map dedicated to the manual strategies visible and editable. This Config Map should be empty if your Real-Time Updater is configured to work with Low Code, and leverages only automatic strategies.

This feature will replace the previous way to modify these files strategies, which was by manually editing the files in the repository. When opening the console, the manual strategy files previously included in the repository will now be shown inside the Config Map.


##### Merging branches now includes Fast Data configurations

:::warning

This feature will be available after your first commit.

:::

When merging differences between different branches, the merge modal now will include more information in the _Fast Data_ section, like the list of _ER Schemas_, the _Aggregation_ and the _Single View Key_ configured in the Single View page.

#### Bug Fix

This version addressed a few bugs, here is a comprehensive list:

- an error occurring when trying to create or reset an Aggregation configuration of a Single View Creator whose version is included in an environment variable has been fixed.

### Fast Data Services

#### Single View Trigger Generator

The new version `v3.0.4` of the `single-view-trigger-generator` is available!

##### Bug Fix

This version addressed a few bugs, here is a comprehensive list:

* Remove logs that allowed the print of sensitive configuration details
* Remove unused environmental variables that created confusion
* Fixed the loading of Certificate Authority, which now can be done in the event storer config, using the KafkaJS properties

For more information please check out the service [changelog](/runtime_suite/single-view-trigger-generator/changelog.md)

## Marketplace

### Marketplace Updates

#### CRUD Service

The new version `v6.9.1` of the CRUD Service is available!

##### Bug Fix

This version addressed a few bugs, here is a comprehensive list:

* collection export endpoint can now parse multiple `Accept`` header values and select the one with the highest weight

For more information please check out the service [changelog](/runtime_suite/crud-service/changelog.md)

## Backoffice

### Backoffice Configurator

#### Bug Fix

This version addressed a few bugs, here is a comprehensive list:

* the modal for automatic data schema generation from a CRUD collection now presents itself with the correct styling

### Backoffice Library (Back-Kit)

The new version `v1.4.1` of the Back-Kit Library is available!

#### New Features

##### `bk-calendar` supports dynamic configurations

Component `bk-calendar` supports dynamic configuration in `additionalCreatePayload`, allowing access, via handlebars, information on the currently logged user, as well as data retrieved from the URL of the page (using property `urlMask`)

##### `bk-layout` supports new layout `leftMenu`

Component `bk-layout` supports new layout modality `leftMenu`, in which the whole component is collapsed into the left sidebar

##### Date fields allow quicker navigation

Form components support month/year navigation and selection in date fields

#### Bug Fix

This version addressed a few bugs, here is a comprehensive list:

* Html attribute `title` of footer buttons in `bk-gallery` component is localized
* Actions of type `copy` support dynamic configurations via handlebars
* Component `bk-form-wizard` does not reset in accordion mode any time a field is changed

For more information please check out the library [changelog](/microfrontend-composer/back-kit/10_overview.md)

## How to update your Console

For on-premise Console installations, please contact your Mia Platform referent to know how to use the `Helm chart version 9.5.9`.
