---
id: v11.5.0
title: Version v11.5.0 Release Notes
sidebar_label: v11.5.0
image: "img/release-note-link-preview.png"
---

_Aug 31st, 2023_

## Console

### New Features

#### Support of Lookup in CRUD Views

In the `MongoDB Views` section, it is possible to enable _lookup_, following specific pipeline requirements to obtain data from _lookup_ collections, simplifying interaction with views and improving support for collections with _one-to-one_ or _many-to-one_ relationships.

More information can be found in the [official documentation](/runtime_suite/crud-service/50_writable_views.md).

Please note that it is possible to enable lookups only if the `CRUD Service` configured in the project has version `6.9.0` or superior. In case there are different versions per environment, all the versions defined must be equal or superior to `6.9.0` to enable lookups.

Check the [CRUD Service](#crud-service) section for more insights!

### Improvements

#### Mongo Collections and Views support multiple tags

The collections configured in the section `MongoDB CRUD` and the views configured in the `MongoDB Views` section can have more than one tag. These tags will be then included in the configuration files passed to the `CRUD Service` to have the collections grouped by said tags, in order to simplify the use of the service.

Please note that it is possible to create multiple tags only if the `CRUD Service` configured in the project has version `6.9.0` or superior. In case there are different versions per environment, all the versions defined must be equal or superior to `6.9.0` to configure these tags.

Check the [CRUD Service](#crud-service) section for more insights!

#### User Profile section 

We have enhanced the viewing and management of user profile settings and preferences, combining them into a single section always accessible from the Console launchbar. By clicking on the new `Profile` option from the dropdown menu, you will now be presented with a section containing two tabs: `Personal info` and `Preferences`.  
In the `Personal info` tab, you will find a brief summary of your profile and an external link for managing your profile settings on the identity provider.  
Within the "Preferences" tab, you can view and manage user's specific preferences.

### Bug Fix

This version addressed the following bug:

* It has been fixed a bug that prevented the correct redirect from the Project Metrics Homepage to the Runtime Area when clicking on the Pods Status of a specific environment.

## Fast Data

### Fast Data Configurator

#### Bug Fix

This version addressed a few bugs in the No-Code Aggregation, here is a comprehensive list:

* It is now possible to correctly see fields with the same name prefix inside the field explorer.
* Errors for `Array of Objects` type fields are no more producing crashes when opening the Aggregation No-Code.
* Error handling has been improved when using `joinDependency`.
* The `Cast Functions` section has been moved from its dedicated space in the sidebar to a tab inside the Projections section.
* Some boilerplate code has been added inside the Validator tab of each Single View Creator page if the Validator code has not been already created.

### Fast Data Services

#### Real Time Updater

The new version `v7.5.5` of the `realtime-updater` is available!

##### Improvements

* `db2` value can now be used as an alias of `basic` when setting the message adapter format.
* Service now exposes Prometheus metrics to keep track of Kafka consumer lag.

#### Single View Trigger Generator

The new version `v3.0.3` of the `single-view-trigger-generator` is available!

##### Improvements

* Service now exposes Prometheus metrics to keep track of Kafka consumer lag.

For more information check out the service [changelog](/runtime_suite/single-view-trigger-generator/changelog.md)

#### Ingestion Storer

The new version `v1.5.0` of the `ingestion-storer` is available!

##### New Features

* Messages are now cached until they reach a tunable size before they are uploaded to the bucket. In any case, cached messages are always uploaded after a tunable timeout, so that it is guaranteed to reach a consumer lag of on topics.
* introduced the following config keys:
  * `bss.cache-upload-timeout` controls the timeout after which cached messages are uploaded to the bucket when no new messages arrive (default 1 minute).
  * `bss.max-bytes-per-file` establishes the average file size to upload (default 8MB). Setting this value to `0` recovers v1.4.0 service behavior.
  * `bss.max-cache-size` maximum cache size that can be reached for each single file. It should be sufficiently larger than `bss.max-bytes-per-file` (default 10MB).

**Note:** The caching mechanism creates a cache space for each combination of topic-partition. For this reason, we recommend fine-tuning service memory _request_ and _limit_ depending on the value set for `bss.max-bytes-per-file` and the total number of partitions the service is going to consume from.

##### Bug Fix

This version addressed a few bugs, here is a comprehensive list:

* Reviewed shutdown logic to actually terminate the service in case of errors.
* Kafka deserializer is set to `ByteArrayDeserializer` to reduce memory consumption. This can be achieved because the service does not need to know the message key and payload contents.
* Log levels of internal libraries have been lifted to WARN to reduce logging.

#### Ingestion Reloader

The new version `v1.4.1` of the `ingestion-reloader` is available!

##### Bug Fix

This version addressed the following bug:

* Removed the requirement on the S3 endpoint, so that now the service can correctly connect to AWS S3 when using _virtual-hosted style_ connections.

## Backoffice

### Backoffice Configurator

#### Bug Fix

##### Fixed navigation to other Console sections when the revision name contains a slash

Internal navigation to other sections of the Console now works correctly even if the dynamic parts of the URL contain some characters that need escaping (e.g., `/`).

### Backoffice Library - 1.3.18

#### Bug Fix

##### `phosphor` icons render tags

`phosphor` icons render tags such as `rect` or `circle` via `@micro-lc/iconic@1.3.1`

### 1.4.0

#### New Features

##### Import data feature
Support for `CRUD Service` import functionality is available through components `bk-import-modal` and `bk-crud-client`.

##### Lookup fields are handled with CRUD Service views
Support for `CRUD Service` [writable views](/runtime_suite/crud-service/50_writable_views.md) is available in components that handle lookup fields. Previous lookup field handling, through `bk-crud-lookup-client` and `lookupOptions` data-schema key, is now deprecated.

##### New form components are available
New components [`bk-dynamic-form-modal`](/microfrontend-composer/back-kit/60_components/210_dynamic_form_modal.md), [`bk-dynamic-form-drawer`](/microfrontend-composer/back-kit/60_components/200_dynamic_form_drawer.md), [`bk-dynamic-form-card`](/microfrontend-composer/back-kit/60_components/190_dynamic_form_card.md), [`bk-form-wizard`](/microfrontend-composer/back-kit/60_components/350_form_wizard.md)  are available.
These extend the functionalities of `bk-form-modal`, `bk-form-drawer`, `bk-form-card`, which are now deprecated.

#### Bug Fix

##### `bk-layout` handles absent names in the user menu
Component `bk-layout` shows the user menu when the `user` context is defined (when the fetch request to API is successful).
This fix will show an empty user `name` if not provided.

#### Deprecated

- The `bk-crud-lookup-client` component is deprecated in favor of backend handling of lookup fields using the `CRUD Service`'s [writable views](/runtime_suite/crud-service/50_writable_views.md) functionalities.
- Component `bk-form-modal` is no longer supported. It is recommended to transition to component
  - `bk-form-wizard`, if property `wizard` is defined in `bk-form-modal`,
  - `bk-dynamic-form-modal` otherwise.
- The `bk-form-drawer` component is no longer supported. Transitioning to `bk-dynamic-form-drawer` is recommended.
- The `bk-form-card` component is no longer supported. Transitioning to `bk-dynamic-form-card` is recommended.

## Marketplace

### Marketplace Updates

#### CRUD Service

The new version `v6.9.0` of the CRUD Service is available!

##### New Features

###### Import Route

A new endpoint `/<collection-name>/import` has been exposed, so that it is possible to upload new records for selected collections from a file.
The supported file types are:

* `application/json`
* `application/x-ndjson`
* `text/csv`

This endpoint can be called using either the `POST` method to perform an insert operation or the `PATCH` method to upsert new and existing documents.

More details on this feature can be found in the dedicated [section](/runtime_suite/crud-service/10_overview_and_usage.md#update_multiple_documents) of the Overview and Usage documentation page.

###### Export Route

The existing `/<collection-name>/export` endpoint can now export collections in formats different from `ndjson`. In fact, now `text/csv` type is also supported.

##### Improvements

###### Best Practice Document

The documentation has been extended to further clarify how the CRUD Service and its features can be employed in different scenarios.

###### Performance Improvements

This new service version increases API requests throughput while maintaining all the new features

##### Bug Fix

This version addressed a few bugs, here is a comprehensive list:

* add missing `enableLookup` property from service configuration JSON Schema
* solve startup performance issues when many collection definitions were configured

:::warning
With the release of version `v6.9.0`, we highly recommend users update their CRUD Service instances to this new one, especially in the case the current adopted version is between `v6.6.x` and `v6.8.x` since those CRUD Service versions suffered some performance issues that have been resolved.
:::

For more information check out the service [changelog](/runtime_suite/crud-service/changelog.md)

#### Appointment Manager - v.2.2.0

Added flexible slots and participant status features.

#### Care Kit - v.2.5.2

Added exporting module to `ck-chart` component.
Fixed `ck-chart` filter handling and `am-calendar` event visualization.

#### Form Service BE and FE - v.1.8.x

Added form expiration date feature.

#### Messaging Service - v.1.3.0

Added `handlebars-helpers` library for advanced message interpolation.

#### O3 DICOM Service - v.0.1.2

Removed `patientID` in the `GET /token` endpoint.

#### PDF Service - v.2.0.0

The new PDF Service now allows to
- generate a PDF from an HTML template;
- generate a PDF from a URL;
- merge two or more PDF documents.
 
See the [CHANGELOG](/runtime_suite/pdf-service/changelog.md) for more details about the new features.

#### Python FastAPI Hello World Example

Added capability to set, via the environment variable `HEADER_KEYS_TO_PROXY`, which headers to proxy.
Moreover, the mock server's base url can now be customized and logs are now shown in the monitoring console section.

#### SMS Service - v.1.1.0

Added features and documentation to prevent OTP fraud on Twilio.
More precisely, added:
- a configurable rate limit;
- a check on Twilio account balance before sending SMS;
- an exponential delay to send sms.

See the [CHANGELOG](/runtime_suite/sms-service/changelog.md) for more details about the new features.

#### Teleconsultation Service Backend - v.1.4.0

Added a `POST /credentials` endpoint.

## How to update your Console

For on-premise installations, please contact your Mia-Platform referent and upgrade your _Console Helm Chart_ to `v9.5.2`.
