---
id: configuration
title: API Portal Configuration
sidebar_label: Configuration
---
This service can be added to your project by visiting Mia-Platform [Marketplace](../../marketplace/overview_marketplace) and creating a new microservice from the **API Portal** plugin.

In order to access the [Documentation Portal](../../console/project-configuration/documentation-portal) you should also [create an endpoint](../../development_suite/api-console/api-design/endpoints) that should expose your microservice at the following path: `/documentations/api-portal`. For this endpoint you should also **unset** the following flags:

* **Show in API Portal** (_Details_ card)
* **Support only JSON format on request** (_Configure microservice gateway_ card)
* **Support only JSON format on response** (_Configure microservice gateway_ card)

After this, in the _Security Management_ card you should also set the **User Group Permission** to `false`.

Lastly, in the _Routes_ card, you should create a route with `GET` as http verb and `/` as route path. For this newly created route uncheck the `inherited` checkbox for the **User Group Permission** and set its value to `true`.

:::note
If you want to expose the Api Portal on an additional path, you have also to expose the Swagger Aggregator on the correct corresponding path.
For instance, if you expose the Api Portal on `/my-api-portal`, then you need to expose the Swagger Aggregator on `/my-api-portal/api`. Otherwise, the Api Portal would not be able to get the swagger definitions.
:::

API Portal plugin does not require any configuration file.

:::warning
Please, be aware that the API Portal is public by default, so the users do not need to perform any login step to view your API Portal.   
You can block unauthorized users to access the API Portal by checking `Authentication required` to the `GET /` route of the endpoint that exposes the API Portal. Doing so, only users with the cookie can access it, but the login page for setting the cookie is not autogenerated, hence you need to configure the login process by yourself.
:::tip
You can set up a login process by using the [Auth0 Client](../../runtime_suite/auth0-client/overview_and_usage) plugin, that you can find in the [MarketPlace](../../marketplace/overview_marketplace).
:::
:::

## Environment variables

- HTTP_PORT (__required__, default `8080`): port where the web server is exposed.
